Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:

**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something

**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something

The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the
context of normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.

The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes
for \"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as
possible, and they are not used in a normative context except in a
direct citation from an external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so
as to maintain continuity of style when extending or modifying the
provisions of such a referenced document.

**should** indicates a recommendation to do something

**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something

**may** indicates permission to do something

**need not** indicates permission not to do something

The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\"
are used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.

**can** indicates that something is possible

**cannot** indicates that something is impossible

The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\"
and \"need not\".

**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a
result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside
the scope of the present document

**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to
happen as a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which
is outside the scope of the present document

**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result
of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document

**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside
the scope of the present document

In addition:

**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement
of fact

**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates
a statement of fact

The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies requirements for support of Radio
Resource Management for the FDD and TDD modes of New Radio (NR). These
requirements include requirements on measurements in NR and the UE as
well as requirements on node dynamical behaviour and interaction, in
terms of delay and response characteristics.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TS 38.304: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) procedures in idle
mode\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol
specification\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 38.213: \"NR; Physical layer procedures for control\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 38.215: \"NR; Physical layer measurements\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 38.533: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) conformance
specification; Radio Resource Management (RRM)\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 38.211: \"NR; Physical channels and modulation".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 38.321: \"NR; Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol
specification\".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 38.212 \"NR; Multiplexing and channel coding\".

\[9\] 3GPP TS 38.202: \"NR; Physical layer services provided by the
physical layer\".

\[10\] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; Overall description; Stage-2\".

\[11\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[12\] 3GPP TS 38.423: \"**NG-RAN; Xn Application Protocol (XnAP)**\".

\[13\] 3GPP TS 38.104: \"NR; Base Station (BS) radio transmission and
reception\".

\[14\] 3GPP TS 38.306: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio access
capabilities\".

\[15\] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Requirements for support of radio resource management\".

\[16\] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol specification\".

\[17\] 3GPP TS 37.340: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA) and NR; Multi-connectivity\", Stage 2.

\[18\] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission
and reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\".

\[19\] 3GPP TS 38.101-2: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission
and reception; Part 2: Range 2 Standalone\".

\[20\] 3GPP TS 38.101-3: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission
and reception; Part 3: Range 1 and Range 2 Interworking operation with
other radios\".

\[21\] 3GPP TS 38.101-4: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission
and reception; Part 4: Performance requirements\".

\[22\] 3GPP TS 38.305: \"NG Radio Access Network (NG-RAN); Stage 2
functional specification of User Equipment (UE) positioning in NG-RAN\".

\[23\] 3GPP TS 36.211: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Physical Channels and Modulation\".

\[24\] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Overall description\".

\[25\] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Technical Specification Group Radio Access
Network; Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); User
Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".

\[26\] 3GPP TS 38.214: \"NR; Physical layer procedures for data\".

\[27\] 3GPP TS 36.355: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); LTE Positioning Protocol (LPP)\".

\[28\] Void.

\[29\] 3GPP TS 25.133: \"Requirements for Support of Radio Resource
Management (FDD)\".

\[30\] 3GPP TS 25.302: \"Services provided by the Physical Layer\".

\[31\] 3GPP TS 37.320: \"Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA),
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and Next Generation
Radio Access; Radio measurement collection for Minimization of Drive
Tests (MDT); Overall description; Stage 2\".

\[32\] 3GPP TS 25.214: \"Physical layer procedures (FDD)\".

\[33\] 3GPP TS 37.213: \"Physical layer procedures for shared spectrum
channel access\"

> \[34\] 3GPP TS 37.355: \"LTE Positioning Protocol (LPP) \".

\[35\] 3GPP TS 38.455 : \"NG-RAN; NR Positioning Protocol A (NRPPa) \".

\[36\] 3GPP TS 37.106: "User Equipment (UE) requirements for shared
spectrum channel access".

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in TR 21.905 \[11\] and the following apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term,
if any, in TR 21.905 \[11\].

**Active DL BWP**: Active DL bandwidth part as defined in TS 38.213
\[3\].

**Blackbox Approach:** Testing methodology, in which the UE internal
implementation of certain specific UE functionality involved in the
test, is unknown.

**Control Resource Set:** As defined in TS 38.213 \[3\].

**DL BWP**: DL bandwidth part as defined in TS 38.213 \[3\].

**EN-DC**: E-UTRA-NR Dual Connectivity as defined in clause 4.1.2 of TS
37.340 \[17\].

**en-gNB**: As defined in TS 37.340 \[17\].

**FR1**: Frequency range 1 as defined in clause 5.1 of TS 38.104 \[13\].

**FR2**: Frequency range 2 as defined in clause 5.1 of TS 38.104 \[13\].

**gNB**: as defined in TS 38.300 \[10\].

**LMF: as defined in TS 38.305 \[22\].**

**Master Cell Group:** As defined in TS 38.331 \[2\].

**Multi-Radio Dual Connectivity:** Dual Connectivity between E-UTRA and
NR nodes, or between two NR nodes, as defined in TS 37.340 \[17\].

**ng-eNB: As defined in TS 38.300 \[10\].**

**NE-DC**: NR-E-UTRA Dual Connectivity as defined in clause 4.1.3.2 of
TS 37.340 \[17\].

**NGEN-DC**: NG-RAN E-UTRA-NR Dual Connectivity as defined in clause
4.1.3.1 of TS 37.340 \[17\].

**NR-DC**: NR-NR Dual Connectivity as defined in clause 4.1.3.3 of TS
37.340 \[17\].

**Primary Cell**: As defined in TS 38.331 \[2\].

**PRS resource instance:** An instance in time of a configured PRS
resource as defined in TS 38.331 \[2\], which may or not overlap with a
measurement gap occasion.

**Quasi Co-Location:** As defined in TS 38.214 \[26\].

**RLM-RS resource:** A resource out of the set of resources configured
for RLM by higher layer parameter RLM-RS-List \[2\] as defined in TS
38.213 \[3\].

**SA operation mode**: Operation mode when the UE is configured with at
least PCell and not any MR-DC.

**Secondary Cell**: As defined in TS 38.331 \[2\].

**Secondary Cell Group:** As defined in TS 38.331 \[2\].

**Serving Cell**: As defined in TS 38.331 \[2\].

**SMTC**: An SSB-based measurement timing configuration configured by
*SSB-MeasurementTimingConfiguration* as specified in TS 38.331 \[2\].

**Special Cell:** As defined in TS 38.331 \[2\].

**SSB:** SS/PBCH block as defined in clause 7.8.3 of TS 38.211 \[6\].

**Timing Advance Group**: As defined in TS 38.331 \[2\].

3.2 Symbols
-----------

For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:

\[...\] Values included in square bracket must be considered for further
studies, because it means that a decision about that value was not
taken.

BW~Channel~ Channel bandwidth, defined in TS 38.101-1, 38.101-2 and
38.101-3 subclause 3.2

Ês Received energy per RE (power normalized to the subcarrier spacing)
during the useful part of the symbol, i.e. excluding the cyclic prefix,
at the UE antenna connector or radiated interface boundary

F~C~ *RF reference frequency* on the channel raster, given in table
5.4.2.2-1 in TS 38.101-1 and 38.101-2

F~C,low~ The Fc of the lowest carrier, expressed in MHz

Io The total received power density, including signal and interference,
as measured at the UE antenna connector or radiated interface boundary.

Ioc The power spectral density (integrated in a noise bandwidth equal to
the chip rate and normalized to the chip rate) of a band limited noise
source (simulating interference from cells, which are not defined in a
test procedure) as measured at the UE antenna connector or radiated
interface boundary.

Iot The received power spectral density of the total noise and
interference for a certain RE (power integrated over the RE and
normalized to the subcarrier spacing) as measured at the UE antenna
connector or radiated interface boundary

![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.3020833333333333in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} The power spectral density of a white
noise source (average power per RE normalised to the subcarrier
spacing), simulating interference from cells that are not defined in a
test procedure, as measured at the UE antenna connector or radiated
interface boundary

![](media/image2.wmf){width="0.3958333333333333in"
height="0.3020833333333333in"} Physical Resource Block number as defined
in clause 3.2 in TS 38.211.

![](media/image3.wmf){width="0.3020833333333333in"
height="0.19791666666666666in"} Timing offset between uplink and
downlink radio frames at the UE, as defined in clause 4.2 in TS 38.213.

![](media/image4.wmf){width="0.6083333333333333in" height="0.2in"} Fixed
timing advance offset, as defined in clause 7.1.2 in TS 38.133.

![](media/image5.wmf){width="0.6041666666666666in"
height="0.3020833333333333in"} Configured UE transmitted power as
defined in clause 6.2.4 in TS 38.101-1, 38-101-2 and 38.101-3.

P~CMAX,c~ Configured UE transmitted power on a serving cell *c* as
defined in clause 6.2.4 in TS 38.101-1, 38-101-2 and 38.101-3

S Cell Selection Criterion defined in TS 38.304, subclause 5.2.3.2 for
NR

SSB\_RP Received (linear) average power of the resource elements that
carry NR synchronisation burst, measured at the UE antenna connector or
radiated interface boundary

Srxlev Cell selection RX level, defined in TS 38.304, subclause 5.2.3.2

Squal Cell selection quality, defined in TS 38.304, subclause 5.2.3.2

Sintrasearch Defined in TS 38.304 , subclause 5.2.4.7 for E-UTRAN amd
38.304 subclause 5.2.4.7 for NR

Snonintrasearch Defined in TS 38.304 , subclause 5.2.4.7

Thresh~x,\ high~ Defined in TS 38.304 , subclause 5.2.4.7

Thresh~x,\ low~ Defined in TS 38.304 , subclause 5.2.4.7

Thresh~serving,\ low~ Defined in TS 38.304 , subclause 5.2.4.7

T~RE-ESTABLISH-REQ~ The RRC Re-establishment delay requirement, the time
between the moment when erroneous CRCs are applied, to when the UE
starts to send preambles on the PRACH.

T~c~ Basic time unit, defined in clause 4.1 of TS 38.211 \[6\].

T~s~ Reference time unit, defined in clause 4.1 of TS 38.211 \[6\].

T~reselection~ Defined in TS 25.304, subclause 5.2.6.1.5

T~reselectionRAT~ Defined in TS 36.304 , subclause 5.2.4.7

T~reselectionEUTRA~ Defined in TS 36.304 , subclause 5.2.4.7

T~reselectionUTRA~ Defined in TS 36.304 , subclause 5.2.4.7

T~reselectionGERAN~Defined in TS 36.304 , subclause 5.2.4.

Thresh~x,\ high~ Defined in TS 38.304 , subclause 5.2.4.7

Thresh~x,\ low~ Defined in TS 38.304 , subclause 5.2.4.7

Thresh~serving,\ low~ Defined in TS 38.304 , subclause 5.2.4.7

T~UE\_re-establish\_delay~ Time between the moments when any of the
conditions requiring RRC re-establishment as defined in clause 5.3.7 in
TS 38.331 \[2\] is detected by the UE and when the UE sends PRACH to the
target PCell.

3.3 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
TR 21.905 \[11\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 \[11\].

AoA Angle of Arrival

AoD Angle of Departure

BFD Beam Failure Detection

BFD-RS BFD Reference Signal

BLER Block Error Rate

BM-RS Beam Management Reference Signal

BWP Bandwidth Part

> CA Carrier Aggregation
>
> CBD Candidate Beam Detection
>
> CBW Channel Bandwidth
>
> CC Component Carrier
>
> CCA Clear Channel Assessment
>
> CLI Cross Link Interference
>
> CMR Channel Measurement Resource

CORESET Control Resource Set

> CP Cyclic Prefix

CSI Channel-State Information

CSI-RS CSI Reference Signal

CSI-RSRP CSI Reference Signal based Reference Signal Received Power

CSI-RSRQ CSI Reference Signal based Reference Signal Received Quality

CSI-SINR CSI Reference Signal based Signal to Noise and Interference
Ratio

CSI\_RP Received (linear) average power of the resource elements that
carry NR CSI-RS signals and channels, measured at the UE antenna
connector

DBT Discovery Burst Transmission

DC Dual Connectivity

DCI Downlink Control Information

DL Downlink

DL-AoD Downlink Angle-of-Departure

DL-TDOA Downlink Time Difference Of Arrival

DMRS Demodulation Reference Signal

DRX Discontinuous Reception

E-CID Enhanced Cell ID

E-UTRA Evolved UTRA

E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN

EN-DC E-UTRA-NR Dual Connectivity

FDD Frequency Division Duplex

FR Frequency Range

HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request

HO Handover

IMR Interference Measurement Resource

L1-RSRP Layer 1 RSRP

L1 SL-RSRP Layer 1 Sidelink RSRP which corresponds to PSCCH-RSRP and/or
PSSCH-RSRP

LMF Location Management Function

LPP LTE Positioning Protocol

MAC Medium Access Control

MCG Master Cell Group

MDT Minimization of Drive Tests

MG Measurement Gap

MGL Measurement Gap Length

MGRP Measurement Gap Repetition Period

MIB Master Information Block

MN Master Node

MR-DC Multi-Radio Dual Connectivity

NE-DC NR-E-UTRA Dual Connectivity

NGEN-DC NG-RAN E-UTRA-NR Dual Connectivity

NR New Radio

NR-DC NR-NR Dual Connectivity

OFDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing

OFDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access

OTDOA Observed Time Difference Of Arrival

PBCH Physical Broadcast Channel

PCC Primary Component Carrier

PCell Primary Cell

PDCCH Physical Downlink Control Channel

PDSCH Physical Downlink Shared Channel

PLMN Public Land Mobile Network

PRACH Physical RACH

PRP PRS Received Power

PRS Positioning Reference Signal

PRS-RSRP Positioning Reference Signal based Reference Signal Received
Power

PSBCH Physical Sidelink Broadcast Channel

PSBCH-RSRP Physical Sidelink Broadcast Channel DMRS based Reference
Signal Received Power

PSCCH Physical Sidelink Control Channel

PSCCH-RSRP Physical Sidelink Control Channel DMRS based Reference Signal
Received Power

PSCell Primary SCell

PSS Primary Synchronization Signal

PSSCH Physical Sidelink Shared Channel

PSSCH-RSRP Physical Sidelink Shared Channel DMRS based Reference Signal
Received Power

pTAG Primary Timing Advance Group

PUCCH Physical Uplink Control Channel

PUSCH Physical Uplink Shared Channel

QCL Quasi Co-Location

RACH Random Access Channel

RAT Radio Access Technology

RLM Radio Link Monitoring

RLM-RS Reference Signal for RLM

RMSI Remaining Minimum System Information

RRC Radio Resource Control

RRM Radio Resource Management

RSSI Received Signal Strength Indicator

RSRP Reference Signal Received Power

RSRQ Reference Signal Received Quality

RSTD Reference Signal Time Difference

RTT Round Trip Time

S-SSB Sidelink Synchronization Signal Block

S-SSB\_RP Received (linear) average power of the resource elements that
carry NR S-SSB signals and channels, measured at the UE antenna
connector

SA Standalone operation mode

SCC Secondary Component Carrier

SCell Secondary Cell

SCG Secondary Cell Group

SCS Subcarrier Spacing

SCS~SSB~ SSB subcarrier spacing

SDL Supplementary Downlink

SFN System Frame Number

SFTD SFN and Frame Timing DifferenceSI System Information

SIB System Information Block

SL-RSSI Sidelink Received Signal Strength Indicator

SLSS Sidelink Synchronization Signal

SMTC SSB-based Measurement Timing configuration

SpCell Special Cell

SRS Sounding Reference Signal

SRS-RSRP Sounding Reference Signal based Reference Signal Received Power

SS-RSRP Synchronization Signal based Reference Signal Received Power

SS-RSRQ Synchronization Signal based Reference Signal Received Quality

SS-SINR Synchronization Signal based Signal to Noise and Interference
Ratio

SSB Synchronization Signal Block

SSB\_RP Received (linear) average power of the resource elements that
carry NR SSB signals and channels, measured at the UE antenna connector
or radiated interface boundary.

SSS Secondary Synchronization Signal

sTAG Secondary Timing Advance Group

SUL Supplementary Uplink

TA Timing Advance

TAG Timing Advance Group

TCI Transmission Configuration Indicator

TDD Time Division Duplex

TDOA Time Difference Of Arrival

TRP Transmission-Reception Point

TTI Transmission Time Interval

UE User Equipment

UL Uplink

3.4 Test tolerances
-------------------

The requirements given in the present document make no allowance for
measurement uncertainty. The test specification 38.533 \[5\] defines the
test tolerances.

3.5 Frequency bands grouping
----------------------------

### 3.5.1 Introduction

The intention with the frequency band grouping below is to increase the
readability of the specification.

The frequency bands grouping is derived based on UE REFSENS requirements
specified in \[18, 19, 20\] and assuming 0.5 dB step between the
neighbour groups. The groups are defined in the order of increasing
REFSENS, i.e., the group A has the smallest REFSENS among the groups.
For the same SCS and a given bandwidth, the bands within the same group
have the same Io conditions in a corresponding requirement in this
specification, provided the bands support this SCS. For different SCSs
supported by a frequency band and the same bandwidth, different Io
conditions may apply for the frequency band in the requirements, while
the band group is the same, based on the lowest REFSENS requirement
normalized by the number of subcarriers among its supported SCSs for
this bandwidth. For the same SCS but different supported bandwidths, the
group for a band is determined based on the lowest REFSENS requirement
normalized by the number of subcarriers among its supported bandwidths.

### 3.5.2 NR operating bands in FR1

NR frequency bands grouping for FR1 is specified in Table 3.5.2-1.

Table 3.5.2-1: NR frequency band groups for FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Group | NR    | NR    | NR    | NR    |       |       |       |       |
|       | FDD   | TDD   | SDL   | CC    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | A^10^ |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
|       | Band  | Oper  | Band  | Oper  | Band  | Oper  | Band  | Oper  |
|       | group | ating | group | ating | group | ating | group | ating |
|       | not   | bands | not   | bands | not   | bands | not   | bands |
|       | ation |       | ation |       | ation |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| A     | NR\_F | n1,   | NR\_T | n34,  | NR\_S | n75,  | NR\_C | \-    |
|       | DD\_F | n18,  | DD\_F | n3    | DL\_F | n76   | CA\_F |       |
|       | R1\_A | n70,  | R1\_A | 8^9^, | R1\_A |       | R1\_A |       |
|       |       | n7    |       | n39,  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 4^4^, |       | n40,  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | n91,  |       | n50,  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | n92,  |       | n51,  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | n93,  |       | n53   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | n94   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| B     | NR\_F | n65,  | NR\_T | n     | NR\_S | \-    | NR\_C | \-    |
|       | DD\_F | n66,  | DD\_F | 38^7^ | DL\_F |       | CA\_F |       |
|       | R1\_B | n     | R1\_B |       | R1\_B |       | R1\_B |       |
|       |       | 74^3^ |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| C     | NR\_F | n30   | NR\_T | n48,  | NR\_S | \-    | NR\_C | \-    |
|       | DD\_F |       | DD\_F | n7    | DL\_F |       | CA\_F |       |
|       | R1\_C |       | R1\_C | 7^1^, | R1\_C |       | R1\_C |       |
|       |       |       |       | n78,  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | n79   |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| D     | NR\_F | n28   | NR\_T | n     | NR\_S | \-    | NR\_C | \-    |
|       | DD\_F |       | DD\_F | 77^2^ | DL\_F |       | CA\_F |       |
|       | R1\_D |       | R1\_D |       | R1\_D |       | R1\_D |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| E     | NR\_F | n2,   | NR\_T | n41,  | NR\_S | \-    | NR\_C | \-    |
|       | DD\_F | n5,   | DD\_F | n90   | DL\_F |       | CA\_F |       |
|       | R1\_E | n7    | R1\_E |       | R1\_E |       | R1\_E |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| F     | NR\_F | n     | NR\_T | \-    | NR\_S | \-    | NR\_C | \-    |
|       | DD\_F | 26^6^ | DD\_F |       | DL\_F |       | CA\_F |       |
|       | R1\_F |       | R1\_F |       | R1\_F |       | R1\_F |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| G     | NR\_F | n3,   | NR\_T | \-    | NR\_S | n29   | NR\_C | \-    |
|       | DD\_F | n8,   | DD\_F |       | DL\_F |       | CA\_F |       |
|       | R1\_G | n12,  | R1\_G |       | R1\_G |       | R1\_G |       |
|       |       | n14,  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | n20,  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | n71   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| H     | NR\_F | n25   | NR\_T | \-    | NR\_S | \-    | NR\_C | \-    |
|       | DD\_F |       | DD\_F |       | DL\_F |       | CA\_F |       |
|       | R1\_H |       | R1\_H |       | R1\_H |       | R1\_H |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| I     | NR\_F | \-    | NR\_T |       | NR\_S | \-    | NR\_C | n46   |
|       | DD\_F |       | DD\_F |       | DL\_F |       | CA\_F |       |
|       | R1\_I |       | R1\_I |       | R1\_I |       | R1\_I |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| J     | NR\_F | \-    | NR\_T | n     | NR\_S | \-    | NR\_C | n96   |
|       | DD\_F |       | DD\_F | 47^8^ | DL\_F |       | CA\_F |       |
|       | R1\_J |       | R1\_J |       | R1\_J |       | R1\_J |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| E     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| xcept |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3.8   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| GHz   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4.2   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| GHz.  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Only  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3.8   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| GHz   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4.2   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| GHz.  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| E     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| xcept |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 475.9 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| MHz   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 510.9 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| MHz.  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Only  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| when  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 475.9 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| MHz   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 510.9 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| MHz.  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 5:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| These |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| used  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| only  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ca    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rrier |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ggreg |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| with  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| other |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NR    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| acco  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rding |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| CA    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| co    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mbina |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| spec  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ified |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in TS |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 38.   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 101-1 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| [18\] |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| TS    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 38.   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 101-3 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \[    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 20\]. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 6:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cond  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ition |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| duced |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| by    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 0.5   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dB    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| when  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ca    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rrier |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| freq  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uency |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ass   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| igned |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NR    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ch    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| annel |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| width |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| w     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ithin |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 86    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 5-894 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| MHz.  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 7:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| When  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| only  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| used  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| V2X   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SL    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ser   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| vice, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| e     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| xclus |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ively |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| used  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NR    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| V2X   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| parti |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cular |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| reg   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ions. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 8:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| This  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| unlic |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ensed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| used  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| V2X   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ser   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| vice. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| There |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is no |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| exp   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ected |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ne    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| twork |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| deplo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| yment |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 9:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| When  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| only  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| used  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| WAN   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ser   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| vice. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 10:   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| where |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| on    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ca    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rrier |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| f     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| reque |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ncies |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| with  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| CCA   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| suppo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rted. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

### 3.5.3 NR operating bands in FR2

NR frequency bands grouping for FR2 is specified in Table 3.5.3-1.

Table 3.5.3-1: NR frequency band groups for FR2

+---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
| Group                     | Band group notation | Operating bands           |
+===========================+=====================+===========================+
| A                         | NR\_TDD\_FR2\_A     | n257^1^, n258^1^, n261^1^ |
+---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
| B                         | NR\_TDD\_FR2\_B     | n257^4^, n258^4^, n261^4^ |
+---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
| C                         | NR\_TDD\_FR2\_C     |                           |
+---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
| D                         | NR\_TDD\_FR2\_D     |                           |
+---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
| E                         | NR\_TDD\_FR2\_E     |                           |
+---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
| F                         | NR\_TDD\_FR2\_F     | n260^4^                   |
+---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
| G                         | NR\_TDD\_FR2\_G     | n260^1^                   |
+---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
| H                         | NR\_TDD\_FR2\_H     |                           |
+---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
| I                         | NR\_TDD\_FR2\_I     |                           |
+---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
| J                         | NR\_TDD\_FR2\_J     |                           |
+---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
| K                         | NR\_TDD\_FR2\_K     |                           |
+---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
| L                         | NR\_TDD\_FR2\_L     | n257^2^, n258^2^, n261^2^ |
+---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
| M                         | NR\_TDD\_FR2\_M     |                           |
+---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
| N                         | NR\_TDD\_FR2\_N     |                           |
+---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
| O                         | NR\_TDD\_FR2\_O     |                           |
+---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
| P                         | NR\_TDD\_FR2\_P     |                           |
+---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
| Q                         | NR\_TDD\_FR2\_Q     |                           |
+---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
| R                         | NR\_TDD\_FR2\_R     |                           |
+---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
| S                         | NR\_TDD\_FR2\_S     |                           |
+---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
| T                         | NR\_TDD\_FR2\_T     | n257^3^, n258^3^, n261^3^ |
+---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
| U                         | NR\_TDD\_FR2\_U     |                           |
+---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
| V                         | NR\_TDD\_FR2\_V     |                           |
+---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
| W                         | NR\_TDD\_FR2\_W     |                           |
+---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
| X                         | NR\_TDD\_FR2\_X     |                           |
+---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
| Y                         | NR\_TDD\_FR2\_Y     | n260^3^                   |
+---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
| Z                         | NR\_TDD\_FR2\_Z     |                           |
+---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
| AA                        | NR\_TDD\_FR2\_AA    | n259^3^                   |
+---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
| NOTE 1: UE power class 1. |                     |                           |
|                           |                     |                           |
| NOTE 2: UE power class 2. |                     |                           |
|                           |                     |                           |
| NOTE 3: UE power class 3. |                     |                           |
|                           |                     |                           |
| NOTE 4: UE power class 4. |                     |                           |
+---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+

3.6 Applicability of requirements in this specification version
---------------------------------------------------------------

In this specification,

\- 'cell', 'PCell', 'PSCell' and 'SCell' refer to NR cell, NR PCell, NR
PSCell, and NR SCell,

\- E-UTRA cells are referred to as 'E-UTRA cell', 'E-UTRA PCell',
'E-UTRA PSCell', and 'E-UTRA SCell',

\- E-UTRA-NR dual connectivity where E-UTRA is the master is referred to
as 'E-UTRA-NR dual connectivity' or 'EN-DC'.

\- NR-NR dual connectivity which involves two gNB acting as Master gNB
and Secondary gNB is referred to as "NR-NR dual connectivity" or
"NR-DC". NR-DC in Rel-15 only includes the scenarios where all serving
cells in MCG in FR1 and all serving cells in SCG in FR2.

\- 'active serving cell' refers to PCell, PSCell and activated SCells

For UE configured with supplementary UL, the requirements in clause 7.1
and 7.3 shall also apply to uplink transmissions on supplementary UL.

Unless explictly stated, requirements do not apply when CCA is used on
serving or neighbour cells.

### 3.6.1 RRC connected state requirements in DRX

For the requirements in RRC connected state specified in this version of
the specification, the UE shall assume that no DRX is used provided the
following conditions are met:

\- DRX parameters are not configured or

\- DRX parameters are configured and

\- *drx-InactivityTimer* is running or

\- *drx-RetransmissionTimerDL* is running or

\- *drx-RetransmissionTimerUL* is running or

\- *ra-ContentionResolutionTimer* is running or

\- a Scheduling Request sent on PUCCH is pending or

\- a PDCCH indicating a new transmission addressed to the C-RNTI of the
MAC entity has not been received after successful reception of a Random
Access Response for the preamble not selected by the MAC entity

Otherwise the UE shall assume that DRX is used.

### 3.6.2 Number of serving carriers

#### 3.6.2.1 Number of serving carriers for SA

Requirements for standalone NR with NR PCell are applicable for the UE
configured with the following number of serving NR CCs:

\- up to 10 NR DL CCs in total, with 1 UL (or 2 UL if SUL is configured)
in PCell and up to 8 UL (or 9 UL if SUL is configured) in total for
SCells.

\- SUL may be configured together with one of the UL

#### 3.6.2.2 Number of serving carriers for EN-DC

Requirements for EN-DC operation of E-UTRA and NR with E-UTRA PCell and
NR PSCell are applicable for the UE configured with the following number
of serving NR CCs:

> \- up to 9 NR DL CCs in total, with 1 UL (or 2 UL if SUL is
> configured) in PSCell, up to 7 UL (or 8 UL if SUL is configured) in
> total for SCells in the FR of PSCell and up to 1 UL (or 2 UL if SUL is
> configured) in SCell in different FR with PSCell.
>
> \- SUL may be configured together with one of the UL

The applicable number of E-UTRA CC for EN-DC in the MCG for both UL and
DL is specified in TS 36.133 \[15\].

#### 3.6.2.3 Number of serving carriers for NE-DC

Requirements for NE-DC operation of NR and E-UTRA with NR PCell and
E-UTRA PSCell are applicable for the UE configured with the following
number of serving NR CCs:

\- up to 7 NR DL CCs in total, with 1 UL (or 2 UL if SUL is configured)
in PCell and up to 1 UL (or 2 UL if SUL is configured) in SCell.

\- SUL may be configured together with one of the UL

The applicable number of E-UTRA CC for NE-DC in the SCG for both UL and
DL is specified in TS 36.133 \[15\].

#### 3.6.2.4 Number of serving carriers for NR-DC

Requirements for NR-DC are applicable for the UE configured with the
following number of serving NR CCs:

\- up to 2 NR DL CCs in total in FR1, up to 8 NR DL CCs in total in FR2,
with 1 UL in PCell, 1 UL in PSCell, and up to 1 UL in each SCell.

### 3.6.3 Applicability for intra-band FR2

For the requirements in RRC connected state specified in this version of
the specification, UE shall assume that the transmitted signals from the
serving cells should have the same downlink spatial domain transmission
filter on one OFDM symbol in the same band in FR2. Otherwise, the UE is
not supposed to satisfy any requirements for SCell.

### 3.6.4 Applicability for FR2 UE power classes

For the requirements of each FR2 power class specified in this version
of the specification, certain UE types with specific device
architectures are assumed. The UE types can be found in TS 38.101-2
\[19\].

### 3.6.5 Applicability for SDL bands

The measurements accuracy requirements for SDL bands in this version of
specification in clause 10.1 shall apply for NR intra-frequency
measurements on SCC (SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ, SS-SINR, and L1-RSRP) and
inter-frequency measurements (SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ, and SS-SINR).

### 3.6.6 Applicability of requirements for NGEN-DC operation

All the requirements in this specification applicable for EN-DC are also
applicable for NGEN-DC.

### 3.6.7 Applicability of QCL

For the requirements specified in this version of the specification, a
reference signal is considered to be QCLed to another reference signal
if it is in the same TCI chain as the other reference signal, provided
that the number of Reference Signals in the chain is no more than 4. It
is assumed there is single QCL type per TCI chain.

A TCI chain consists of an SSB, and one or more CSI-RS resources, and
the TCI state of each Reference Signal includes another Reference Signal
in the same TCI chain.

DMRS of PDCCH or PDSCH is QCLed with the reference signal in its active
TCI state and any other reference signal that is QCLed, based on above
criteria, with the reference signal in the active TCI state.

3.6.8 Applicability of 2-step RA and 4-step RA in RRM requirements

Unless explicitly stated otherwise the requirements under the following
clauses, where the UE transmits random acess (with requirements in
clause 6.2.2) to NR serving cell or NR target cell, are applicable for
both 2-step RA and 4-step RA procedures \[3\]:

\- Handover requirements in clause 6.1, except for clauses 6.1.2 and
6.1B,

\- RRC connection re-establishment requirements in clause 6.2.1,

\- RRC connection release with redirection to NR requirements in clause
6.2.3.2.1,

\- UE transmit timing requirements in clause 7.1,

\- PSCell addition delay requirements in clause 8.9.2,

\- PSCell change requirements in clause 8.11 and

\- Conditional PSCell change requirements in clause 8.11B.

Unless explicitly stated otherwise the requirements under the following
clauses, where the UE transmits random acess (with requirements in
clause 6.2.2A) to NR serving cell or NR target cell subject to uplink
CCA, are applicable for both 2-step RA and 4-step RA procedures \[3\]:

\- Handover requirements with CCA in clause 6.1B,

\- RRC connection re-establishment requirements with CCA in clause
6.2.1A,

\- RRC connection release with redirection to NR requirements with CCA
in clause 6.2.3.2.3, and

\- UE transmit timing requirements with CCA in clause 7.1.

### 3.6.9 Applicability of requirements for scheduling availability

The scheduling availability requirements in clause 8.1.7.3, 8.5.7.3,
8.5.8.3, 9.5.6.3 and 9.10.2.6.2 assumes that:

\- The UE is not configured with simultaneous UL/DL between two FR2
bands if the UE does not have the capability of supporting
*simultaneousRxTxInterBandCA*, and

\- The UE is not configured with mixed numerology on two FR2 CCs if the
UE does not have the capability of supporting simultaneous reception
with two different numerologies between FR2 CCs in DL.

The scheduling availability requirements in clause 8.1.7.1, 8.1.7.2,
8.5.7.1, 8.5.7.2, 8.5.8.1, 8.5.8.2, 9.5.6.1, 9.5.6.2, 9.8.6.1, and
9.8.6.2 assumes that the UE is not configured with simultaneous UL/DL
between two FR1 bands if the UE does not have the capability of
supporting *simultaneousRxTxInterBandCA*.

The scheduling availability requirements in clause 8.1.7.4, 8.5.7.4,
8.5.8.4, 9.5.6.4 and 9.8.6.4 assumes that the UE is not configured with
simultaneous UL/DL between FR1 and FR2 bands if the UE does not have the
capability of supporting *simultaneousRxTxInterBandCA on this band
combination*.

### 3.6.10 Applicability of requirements for measurement restrictions

The requirements for measurement restrictions in clause 8.1.2.3,
8.1.3.3, 8.5.2.3, 8.5.3.3, 8.5.5.3, 8.5.6.3, 9.5.5 and 9.8.5 are not
applicable if the following condition is met:

\- The network configures mixed numerology on two CCs if the UE does not
have the capability of supporting simultaneous reception with different
numerologies between the two CCs in DL.

4 SA: RRC\_IDLE state mobility
==============================

4.1 Cell Selection
------------------

After a UE has switched on and a PLMN has been selected, the Cell
selection process takes place, as described in TS 38.304 \[1\]. This
process allows the UE to select a suitable cell where to camp on in
order to access available services. In this process, the UE can use
stored information (*Stored information cell selection*) or not
(*Initial cell selection*).

4.2 Cell Re-selection
---------------------

### 4.2.1 Introduction

The cell reselection procedure allows the UE to select a more suitable
cell and camp on it.

When the UE is in either *Camped* *Normally* state or *Camped on Any
Cell* state on a cell, the UE shall attempt to detect, synchronise, and
monitor intra-frequency, inter-frequency and inter-RAT cells indicated
by the serving cell. For intra-frequency and inter-frequency cells the
serving cell may not provide explicit neighbour list but carrier
frequency information and bandwidth information only. UE measurement
activity is also controlled by measurement rules defined in TS 38.304
\[1\], allowing the UE to limit its measurement activity

In the requirements of clause 4.2, the exceptions for side conditions
apply as follows:

\- for the UE capable of CA, the applicable exceptions for side
conditions are specified in Annex B, clause B.3.2.1, B.3.2.3, or B.3.2.5
for UE supporting CA in FR1, CA in FR2 and CA between FR1 and FR2,
respectively;

\- for the UE capable of SUL, the applicable exceptions for side
conditions are specified in Annex B, clause B.3.4.1 for UE supporting
SUL in FR1.

### 4.2.2 Requirements

#### 4.2.2.1 UE measurement capability

For idle mode cell re-selection purposes, and for UE supporting
*IdleInactiveMeasurements-r16* or *idleInactiveEUTRA-MeasReport-r16,
for* NR CA and MR-DC measurement purpose, the UE shall be capable of
monitoring at least:

\- Intra-frequency carrier, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 7 NR inter-frequency carriers, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 7 FDD E-UTRA inter-RAT carriers, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 7 TDD E-UTRA inter-RAT carriers.

*In addition to the requirements defined above,* a UE supporting E-UTRA
measurements in RRC\_IDLE state shall be capable of monitoring a total
of at least 14 carrier frequency layers, which includes serving layer,
comprising of any above defined combination of E-UTRA FDD, E-UTRA TDD
and NR layers.

#### 4.2.2.2 Measurement and evaluation of serving cell

The UE shall measure the SS-RSRP and SS-RSRQ level of the serving cell
and evaluate the cell selection criterion S defined in TS 38.304 \[1\]
for the serving cell at least once every M1\*N1 DRX cycle; where:

> M1=2 if SMTC periodicity (T~SMTC~) \> 20 ms and DRX cycle ≤ 0.64
> second,
>
> otherwise M1=1.

The UE shall filter the SS-RSRP and SS-RSRQ measurements of the serving
cell using at least 2 measurements. Within the set of measurements used
for the filtering, at least two measurements shall be spaced by, at
least DRX cycle/2.

If the UE has evaluated according to Table 4.2.2.2-1 in N~serv~
consecutive DRX cycles that the serving cell does not fulfil the cell
selection criterion S, the UE shall initiate the measurements of all
neighbour cells indicated by the serving cell, regardless of the
measurement rules currently limiting UE measurement activities.

If the UE in RRC\_IDLE has not found any new suitable cell based on
searches and measurements using the intra-frequency, inter-frequency and
inter-RAT information indicated in the system information for 10 s, the
UE shall initiate cell selection procedures for the selected PLMN as
defined in TS 38.304 \[1\].

Table 4.2.2.2-1: N~serv~

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------- ---------------------------------- -----------
  DRX cycle length \[s\]                                                                                                   Scaling Factor (N1)   N~serv~ \[number of DRX cycles\]   
                                                                                                                           FR1                   FR2^Note1^                         
  0.32                                                                                                                     1                     8                                  M1\*N1\*4
  0.64                                                                                                                                           5                                  M1\*N1\*4
  1.28                                                                                                                                           4                                  N1\*2
  2.56                                                                                                                                           3                                  N1\*2
  Note 1: Applies for UE supporting power class 2&3&4. For UE supporting power class 1, N1 = 8 for all DRX cycle length.                                                            
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------- ---------------------------------- -----------

#### 4.2.2.3 Measurements of intra-frequency NR cells

The UE shall be able to identify new intra-frequency cells and perform
SS-RSRP and SS-RSRQ measurements of the identified intra-frequency cells
without an explicit intra-frequency neighbour list containing physical
layer cell identities.

The UE shall be able to evaluate whether a newly detectable
intra-frequency cell meets the reselection criteria defined in TS38.304
\[1\] within T~detect,NR\_Intra~ when that Treselection= 0 . An intra
frequency cell is considered to be detectable according to the
conditions defined in Annex B.1.2 for a corresponding Band.

The UE shall measure SS-RSRP and SS-RSRQ at least every
T~measure,NR\_Intra~ (see table 4.2.2.3-1 or table 4.2.2.3-2) for
intra-frequency cells that are identified and measured according to the
measurement rules.

The UE shall filter SS-RSRP and SS-RSRQ measurements of each measured
intra-frequency cell using at least 2 measurements. Within the set of
measurements used for the filtering, at least two measurements shall be
spaced by at least T~measure,NR\_Intra~/2.

The UE shall not consider a NR neighbour cell in cell reselection, if it
is indicated as not allowed in the measurement control system
information of the serving cell.

For an intra-frequency cell that has been already detected, but that has
not been reselected to, the filtering shall be such that the UE shall be
capable of evaluating that the intra-frequency cell has met reselection
criterion defined in TS38.304 \[1\] within T~evaluate,NR\_Intra~ when
T~reselection~ = 0 as specified in table 4.2.2.3-1 or table 4.2.2.3-2
provided that:

> when *rangeToBestCell* is not configured:

\- the cell is at least 3dB better ranked in FR1 or 4.5dB better ranked
in FR2.

when *rangeToBestCell* is configured:

\- the cell has the highest number of beams above the threshold
*absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation* among all detected cells whose
cell-ranking criterion R value in TS38.304 \[1\] is within
*rangeToBestCell* of the cell-ranking criterion R value of the highest
ranked cell.

\- if there are multiple such cells, the cell has the highest rank among
them.

\- the cell is at least 3dB better ranked in FR1 or 4.5dB better ranked
in FR2 if the current serving cell is among them.

When evaluating cells for reselection, the SSB side conditions apply to
both serving and non-serving intra-frequency cells.

If T~reselection~ timer has a non zero value and the intra-frequency
cell is satisfied with the reselection criteria which are defined in
TS38.304 \[1\], the UE shall evaluate this intra-frequency cell for the
T~reselection~ time. If this cell remains satisfied with the reselection
criteria within this duration, then the UE shall reselect that cell.

For UE not configured with *highSpeedMeasFlag-r16*, T~detect,NR\_Intra,~
T~measure,NR\_Intra~ and T~evaluate,\ NR\_intra~ are specified in Table
4.2.2.3-1. For UE configured with *highSpeedMeasFlag-r16*,
T~detect,NR\_Intra,~ T~measure,NR\_Intra~ and T~evaluate,\ NR\_intra~
are specified in Table 4.2.2.3-2.

The requirements in Table 4.2.2.3-2 apply only when the UE supports
*measurementEnhancement-r16* or *intraNR-MeasurementEnhancement-r16*.
For UE not supporting either *measurementEnhancement-r16* or
*intraNR-MeasurementEnhancement-r16*, the UE is not required to meet the
requirements specified in Table 4.2.2.3-2.

Table 4.2.2.3-1: T~detect,NR\_Intra,~ T~measure,NR\_Intra~ and
T~evaluate,NR\_Intra~

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| DRX      | Scaling  | T~d      | T~me     | T~eva    |          |
| cycle    | Factor   | etect,NR | asure,NR | luate,NR |          |
| length   | (N1)     | \_Intra~ | \_Intra~ | \_Intra~ |          |
| \[s\]    |          | \[s\]    | \[s\]    |          |          |
|          |          | (number  | (number  | \[s\]    |          |
|          |          | of DRX   | of DRX   | (number  |          |
|          |          | cycles)  | cycles)  | of DRX   |          |
|          |          |          |          | cycles)  |          |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+
|          | FR1      | FR       |          |          |          |
|          |          | 2^Note1^ |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 0.32     | 1        | 8        | 11.52 x  | 1.28 x   | 5.12 x   |
|          |          |          | N1 x M2  | N1 x M2  | N1 x M2  |
|          |          |          | (36 x N1 | (4 x N1  | (16 x N1 |
|          |          |          | x M2)    | x M2)    | x M2)    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 0.64     |          | 5        | 17.92 x  | 1.28 x   | 5.12 x   |
|          |          |          | N1 (28 x | N1 (2 x  | N1 (8 x  |
|          |          |          | N1)      | N1)      | N1)      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 1.28     |          | 4        | 32 x N1  | 1.28 x   | 6.4 x N1 |
|          |          |          | (25 x    | N1 (1 x  | (5 x N1) |
|          |          |          | N1)      | N1)      |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 2.56     |          | 3        | 58.88 x  | 2.56 x   | 7.68 x   |
|          |          |          | N1 (23 x | N1 (1 x  | N1 (3 x  |
|          |          |          | N1)      | N1)      | N1)      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Note 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Applies  |          |          |          |          |          |
| for UE   |          |          |          |          |          |
| su       |          |          |          |          |          |
| pporting |          |          |          |          |          |
| power    |          |          |          |          |          |
| class    |          |          |          |          |          |
| 2&3&4.   |          |          |          |          |          |
| For UE   |          |          |          |          |          |
| su       |          |          |          |          |          |
| pporting |          |          |          |          |          |
| power    |          |          |          |          |          |
| class 1, |          |          |          |          |          |
| N1 = 8   |          |          |          |          |          |
| for all  |          |          |          |          |          |
| DRX      |          |          |          |          |          |
| cycle    |          |          |          |          |          |
| length.  |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| Note 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| M2 = 1.5 |          |          |          |          |          |
| if SMTC  |          |          |          |          |          |
| per      |          |          |          |          |          |
| iodicity |          |          |          |          |          |
| of       |          |          |          |          |          |
| measured |          |          |          |          |          |
| intra-f  |          |          |          |          |          |
| requency |          |          |          |          |          |
| cell \>  |          |          |          |          |          |
| 20 ms;   |          |          |          |          |          |
| o        |          |          |          |          |          |
| therwise |          |          |          |          |          |
| M2=1. If |          |          |          |          |          |
| d        |          |          |          |          |          |
| ifferent |          |          |          |          |          |
| SMTC     |          |          |          |          |          |
| perio    |          |          |          |          |          |
| dicities |          |          |          |          |          |
| are      |          |          |          |          |          |
| co       |          |          |          |          |          |
| nfigured |          |          |          |          |          |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |
| d        |          |          |          |          |          |
| ifferent |          |          |          |          |          |
| cells,   |          |          |          |          |          |
| the SMTC |          |          |          |          |          |
| per      |          |          |          |          |          |
| iodicity |          |          |          |          |          |
| in this  |          |          |          |          |          |
| note is  |          |          |          |          |          |
| the one  |          |          |          |          |          |
| used by  |          |          |          |          |          |
| the cell |          |          |          |          |          |
| being    |          |          |          |          |          |
| ide      |          |          |          |          |          |
| ntified. |          |          |          |          |          |
| During   |          |          |          |          |          |
| PSS/SSS  |          |          |          |          |          |
| de       |          |          |          |          |          |
| tection, |          |          |          |          |          |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |
| per      |          |          |          |          |          |
| iodicity |          |          |          |          |          |
| of the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| SMTC     |          |          |          |          |          |
| co       |          |          |          |          |          |
| nfigured |          |          |          |          |          |
| for the  |          |          |          |          |          |
| intra-f  |          |          |          |          |          |
| requency |          |          |          |          |          |
| carrier  |          |          |          |          |          |
| is       |          |          |          |          |          |
| assumed, |          |          |          |          |          |
| and if   |          |          |          |          |          |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |
| actual   |          |          |          |          |          |
| SSB      |          |          |          |          |          |
| tran     |          |          |          |          |          |
| smission |          |          |          |          |          |
| per      |          |          |          |          |          |
| iodicity |          |          |          |          |          |
| is       |          |          |          |          |          |
| greater  |          |          |          |          |          |
| than the |          |          |          |          |          |
| SMTC     |          |          |          |          |          |
| co       |          |          |          |          |          |
| nfigured |          |          |          |          |          |
| for the  |          |          |          |          |          |
| intra-f  |          |          |          |          |          |
| requency |          |          |          |          |          |
| carrier, |          |          |          |          |          |
| longer   |          |          |          |          |          |
| T~det    |          |          |          |          |          |
| ect,\ NR |          |          |          |          |          |
| \_intra~ |          |          |          |          |          |
| is       |          |          |          |          |          |
| e        |          |          |          |          |          |
| xpected. |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

Table 4.2.2.3-2: T~detect,NR\_Intra,~ T~measure,NR\_Intra~ and
T~evaluate,NR\_Intra~ for UE configured with ***highSpeedMeasFlag-r16***
(Frequency range FR1)

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| DRX cycle      | T~det          | T~meas         | T~evalu        |
| length \[s\]   | ect,NR\_Intra~ | ure,NR\_Intra~ | ate,NR\_Intra~ |
|                | \[s\] (number  | \[s\] (number  |                |
|                | of DRX cycles) | of DRX cycles) | \[s\] (number  |
|                |                |                | of DRX cycles) |
+================+================+================+================+
|                |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 0.32           | 2.56 x M2 (8 x | 0.32 x M3 (1 x | 0.96 x M4 (3 x |
|                | M2)            | M3)            | M4)            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 0.64           | 5.12 (8)       | 0.64 (1)       | 1.92 (3)       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 1.28           | 8.96 (7)       | 1.28 (1)       | 3.84 (3)       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 2.56           | 58.88 (23)     | 2.56 (1)       | 7.68 (3)       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Note 1: when   |                |                |                |
| SMTC \< = 40   |                |                |                |
| ms, M2 = M3 =  |                |                |                |
| M4 = 1; and    |                |                |                |
| when SMTC \>   |                |                |                |
| 40 ms, M2 =    |                |                |                |
| 1.5, M3 = M4 = |                |                |                |
| 2              |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| Note 2: When   |                |                |                |
| *highSpee      |                |                |                |
| dMeasFlag-r16* |                |                |                |
| is configured, |                |                |                |
| the            |                |                |                |
| requirements   |                |                |                |
| apply only to  |                |                |                |
| UE supporting  |                |                |                |
| either         |                |                |                |
| *measurementEn |                |                |                |
| hancement-r16* |                |                |                |
| or             |                |                |                |
| *intraNR-      |                |                |                |
| MeasurementEnh |                |                |                |
| ancement-r16.* |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

#### 4.2.2.4 Measurements of inter-frequency NR cells

The UE shall be able to identify new inter-frequency cells and perform
SS-RSRP or SS-RSRQ measurements of identified inter-frequency cells if
carrier frequency information is provided by the serving cell, even if
no explicit neighbour list with physical layer cell identities is
provided.

If Srxlev \> S~nonIntraSearchP~ and Squal \> S~nonIntraSearchQ~ then the
UE shall search for inter-frequency layers of higher priority at least
every T~higher\_priority\_search~ where T~higher\_priority\_search~ is
described in clause 4.2.2.7.

If Srxlev ≤ S~nonIntraSearchP~ or Squal ≤ S~nonIntraSearchQ~ then the UE
shall search for and measure inter-frequency layers of higher, equal or
lower priority in preparation for possible reselection. In this
scenario, the minimum rate at which the UE is required to search for and
measure higher priority layers shall be the same as that defined below
in this clause.

The UE shall be able to evaluate whether a newly detectable
inter-frequency cell meets the reselection criteria defined in TS38.304
\[1\] within K~carrier~ \* T~detect,NR\_Inter~ if at least carrier
frequency information is provided for inter-frequency neighbour cells by
the serving cells when T~reselection~ = 0 provided that the reselection
criteria is met by a margin of at least 5 dB in FR1 or 6.5dB in FR2 for
reselections based on ranking or 6dB in FR1 or 7.5dB in FR2 for SS-RSRP
reselections based on absolute priorities or 4dB in FR1 and 4dB in FR2
for SS-RSRQ reselections based on absolute priorities.

The parameter K~carrier~ is the number of NR inter-frequency carriers
indicated by the serving cell. The parameter K~carrier~ for a UE
configured with idle mode CA measurements (while T331 is running), is
the combined number of NR inter-frequency carriers indicated by the
serving cell and the number of NR inter-frequency carriers configured
for idle mode CA measurements.

Note: combined total number means that if a carrier is an
inter-frequency carrier indicated by the serving cell for mobility and
additionally a carrier configured for idle mode CA measurements, it only
counts as one carrier.

An inter-frequency cell is considered to be detectable according to the
conditions defined in Annex B.1.3 for a corresponding Band.

When higher priority cells are found by the higher priority search, they
shall be measured at least every T~measure,NR\_Inter~. If, after
detecting a cell in a higher priority search, it is determined that
reselection has not occurred then the UE is not required to continuously
measure the detected cell to evaluate the ongoing possibility of
reselection. However, the minimum measurement filtering requirements
specified later in this clause shall still be met by the UE before it
makes any determination that it may stop measuring the cell. If the UE
detects on a NR carrier a cell whose physical identity is indicated as
not allowed for that carrier in the measurement control system
information of the serving cell, the UE is not required to perform
measurements on that cell.

The UE shall measure SS-RSRP or SS-RSRQ at least every K~carrier~ \*
T~measure,NR\_Inter~ (see table 4.2.2.4-1) for identified lower or equal
priority inter-frequency cells. If the UE detects on a NR carrier a cell
whose physical identity is indicated as not allowed for that carrier in
the measurement control system information of the serving cell, the UE
is not required to perform measurements on that cell.

The UE shall filter SS-RSRP or SS-RSRQ measurements of each measured
higher, lower and equal priority inter-frequency cell using at least 2
measurements. Within the set of measurements used for the filtering, at
least two measurements shall be spaced by at least
T~measure,NR\_Inter~/2.

The UE shall not consider a NR neighbour cell in cell reselection, if it
is indicated as not allowed in the measurement control system
information of the serving cell.

For an inter-frequency cell that has been already detected, but that has
not been reselected to, the filtering shall be such that the UE shall be
capable of evaluating that the inter-frequency cell has met reselection
criterion defined TS 38.304 \[1\] within K~carrier~ \*
T~evaluate,NR\_Inter~ when T~reselection~ = 0 as specified in table
4.2.2.4-1 provided that the reselection criteria is met by

\- the condition when performing equal priority reselection and

when *rangeToBestCell* is not configured:

\- the cell is at least 5dB better ranked in FR1 or 6.5dB better ranked
in FR2 or.

when *rangeToBestCell* is configured:

\- the cell has the highest number of beams above the threshold
*absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation* among all detected cells whose
cell-ranking criterion R value in TS38.304 \[1\] is within
*rangeToBestCell* of the cell-ranking criterion R value of the highest
ranked cell.

\- if there are multiple such cells, the cell has the highest rank among
them

\- the cell is at least 5dB better ranked in FR1 or 6.5dB better ranked
in FR2 if the current serving cell is among them. or

\- 6dB in FR1 or 7.5dB in FR2 for SS-RSRP reselections based on absolute
priorities or

\- 4dB in FR1 or 4dB in FR2 for SS-RSRQ reselections based on absolute
priorities.

When evaluating cells for reselection, the SSB side conditions apply to
both serving and inter-frequency cells.

If T~reselection~ timer has a non zero value and the inter-frequency
cell is satisfied with the reselection criteria, the UE shall evaluate
this inter-frequency cell for the T~reselection~ time. If this cell
remains satisfied with the reselection criteria within this duration,
then the UE shall reselect that cell.

The UE is not expected to meet the measurement requirements for an
inter-frequency carrier under DRX cycle=320 ms defined in Table
4.2.2.4-1 under the following conditions:

\- T~SMTC\_intra~ = T~SMTC\_inter~ = 160 ms; where

\- T~SMTC\_intra~ is the periodicity of the SMTC configured for the
intra-frequency carrier if no identified intra-frequency cell is in the
PCI list of *smtc2-LP* on this intra-frequency carrier; T~SMTC\_intra~
is the periodicity of the *smtc2-LP* configured for the intra-frequency
carrier if at least one identified intra-frequency cell is in the PCI
list of *smtc2-LP* on this intra-frequency carrier. During PSS/SSS
detection, the periodicity of the SMTC configured for the
intra-frequency carrier is assumed for T~SMTC\_intra~. If the actual SSB
transmission periodicity is greater than the SMTC configured for the
intra-frequency carrier, longer T~detect,\ NR\_intra~ is expected.

\- T~SMTC\_inter~ is the actual SMTC periodicity used by the
inter-frequency cell being identified. During PSS/SSS detection, the
periodicity of the SMTC configured for the inter-frequency carrier is
assumed for T~SMTC\_inter.~ If the actual SSB transmission periodicity
is greater than the SMTC configured for the inter-frequency carrier,
longer T~detect,\ NR\_inter~ is expected.

\- SMTC occasions configured for the inter-frequency carrier occur up to
1 ms before the start or up to 1 ms after the end of the SMTC occasions
configured for the intra-frequency carrier, and

\- SMTC occasions configured for the intra-frequency carrier and for the
inter-frequency carrier occur up to 1 ms before the start or up to 1 ms
after the end of the paging occasion in TS38.304 \[1\].

Table 4.2.2.4-1: T~detect,NR\_Inter,~ T~measure,NR\_Inter~ and
T~evaluate,NR\_Inter~

  DRX cycle length \[s\]                                                                                                   Scaling Factor (N1)   T~detect,NR\_Inter~ \[s\] (number of DRX cycles)   T~measure,NR\_Inter~ \[s\] (number of DRX cycles)   T~evaluate,NR\_Inter~ \[s\] (number of DRX cycles)   
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------- -------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------
                                                                                                                           FR1                   FR2^Note1^                                                                                                                                                  
  0.32                                                                                                                     1                     8                                                  11.52 x N1 x 1.5 (36 x N1 x 1.5)                    1.28 x N1 x 1.5 (4 x N1 x 1.5)                       5.12 x N1 x 1.5 (16 x N1 x 1.5)
  0.64                                                                                                                                           5                                                  17.92x N1 (28 x N1)                                 1.28 x N1 (2 x N1)                                   5.12 x N1 (8 x N1)
  1.28                                                                                                                                           4                                                  32 x N1 (25 x N1)                                   1.28 x N1 (1 x N1)                                   6.4 x N1 (5 x N1)
  2.56                                                                                                                                           3                                                  58.88 x N1 (23 x N1)                                2.56 x N1 (1 x N1)                                   7.68 x N1 (3 x N1)
  Note 1: Applies for UE supporting power class 2&3&4. For UE supporting power class 1, N1 = 8 for all DRX cycle length.                                                                                                                                                                                     

#### 4.2.2.5 Measurements of inter-RAT E-UTRAN cells

If Srxlev \> S~nonIntraSearchP~ and Squal \> S~nonIntraSearchQ~ then the
UE shall search for inter-RAT E-UTRAN layers of higher priority at least
every T~higher\_priority\_search~ where T~higher\_priority\_search~ is
described in clause 4.2.2.

If Srxlev ≤ S~nonIntraSearchP~ or Squal ≤ S~nonIntraSearchQ~ then the UE
shall search for and measure inter-RAT E-UTRAN layers of higher, lower
priority in preparation for possible reselection. In this scenario, the
minimum rate at which the UE is required to search for and measure
higher priority inter-RAT E-UTRAN layers shall be the same as that
defined below for lower priority RATs.

The requirements in this clause apply for inter-RAT E-UTRAN FDD
measurements and E-UTRA TDD measurements. When the measurement rules
indicate that inter-RAT E-UTRAN cells are to be measured, the UE shall
measure RSRP and RSRQ of detected E-UTRA cells in the neighbour
frequency list at the minimum measurement rate specified in this clause.

The parameter N~EUTRA\_carrier~ is the total number of configured E-UTRA
carriers indicated to meet non high speed requirements in the neighbour
frequency list. The parameter N~EUTRA\_carrier\_HST~ is the total number
of configured E-UTRA carriers indicated to meet high speed requirements
in the neighbour frequency list. If Srxlev ≤ S~nonIntraSearchP~ or Squal
≤ S~nonIntraSearchQ~, an inter-RAT E-UTRAN layer is indicated to meet
high speed requirements if highSpeedMeasFlag-r16 is configured and the
carrier to be measured is configured with highSpeedEUTRACarrier-r16 and
UE supports the enhanced inter-RAT E-UTRAN measurement requirements. If
Srxlev \> S~nonIntraSearchP~ and Squal \> S~nonIntraSearchQ~, UE is
required to meet non high speed requirements no matter whether
highSpeedMeasFlag-r16 or highSpeedEUTRACarrier-r16 is configured or not.

The parameter N~EUTRA\_carrier~ for a UE configured with idle mode DC
measurements (while T331 is running), is the combined number of
configured E-UTRA carriers in the neighbour frequency list and E-UTRA
carriers configured for idle mode DC measurements, excluding the
configured E-UTRA carriers indicated to meet high speed requirements in
the neighbour frequency list.

Note: combined total number means that if a carrier is an E-UTRA carrier
indicated by the serving cell for mobility and additionally a carrier
configured for idle mode CA measurements, it only counts as one carrier.

The UE shall filter RSRP and RSRQ measurements of each measured E-UTRA
cell using at least 2 measurements. Within the set of measurements used
for the filtering, at least two measurements shall be spaced by at least
half the minimum specified measurement period.

An inter-RAT E-UTRA cell is considered to be detectable provided the
following conditions are fulfilled:

\- the same conditions as for inter-frequency RSRP measurements
specified in TS 36.133 \[15, Annex B.1.2\] are fulfilled for a
corresponding Band, and

\- the same conditions as for inter-frequency RSRQ measurements
specified in TS 36.133 \[15, Annex B.1.2\] are fulfilled for a
corresponding Band.

\- SCH conditions specified in TS 36.133 \[15, Annex B.1.2\] are
fulfilled for a corresponding Band

The UE shall be able to evaluate whether a newly detectable inter-RAT
E-UTRAN cell meets the reselection criteria defined in TS38.304 \[1\]
within N~EUTRA\_carrier\_HST~ \* T~detect,EUTRAN\_HST~ +
N~EUTRA\_carrier~ \* T~detect,EUTRAN~ when Srxlev ≤ S~nonIntraSearchP~
or Squal ≤ S~nonIntraSearchQ~ when T~reselection~ = 0 provided that the
reselection criteria is met by a margin of at least 6dB for RSRP
reselections based on absolute priorities or 4dB for RSRQ reselections
based on absolute priorities.

Cells which have been detected shall be measured at least every
N~EUTRA\_carrier\_HST~ \* T~measure,EUTRAN\_HST~ + N~EUTRA\_carrier~ \*
T~measure,EUTRAN~ when Srxlev ≤ S~nonIntraSearchP~ or Squal ≤
S~nonIntraSearchQ~.

When higher priority cells are found by the higher priority search, they
shall be measured at least every T~measure,EUTRAN~. If, after detecting
a cell in a higher priority search, it is determined that reselection
has not occurred then the UE is not required to continuously measure the
detected cell to evaluate the ongoing possibility of reselection.
However, the minimum measurement filtering requirements specified later
in this clause shall still be met by the UE before it makes any
determination that it may stop measuring the cell.

If the UE detects on an inter-RAT E-UTRAN carrier a cell whose physical
identity is indicated as not allowed for that carrier in the measurement
control system information of the serving cell, the UE is not required
to perform measurements on that cell.

The UE shall not consider an inter-RAT E-UTRA cell in cell reselection,
if it is indicated as not allowed in the measurement control system
information of the serving cell.

For a cell that has been already detected, but that has not been
reselected to, the filtering shall be such that the UE shall be capable
of evaluating that an already identified inter-RAT E-UTRA cell has met
reselection criterion defined in TS 38.304 \[1\] within
N~EUTRA\_carrier\_HST~ \* T~evaluate,EUTRAN\_HST~ + N~EUTRA\_carrier~ \*
T ~evaluate,EUTRAN~ when T~reselection~ = 0 as speficied in table
4.2.2.5-1 and 4.2.2.5-2 provided that the reselection criteria is met by
a margin of at least 6dB for RSRP reselections based on absolute
priorities or 4dB for RSRQ reselections based on absolute priorities.

If T~reselection~ timer has a non zero value and the inter-RAT E-UTRA
cell is satisfied with the reselection criteria which are defined in
TS 38.304 \[1\], the UE shall evaluate this E-UTRA cell for the
T~reselection~ time. If this cell remains satisfied with the reselection
criteria within this duration, then the UE shall reselect that cell.

Table 4.2.2.5-1: T~detect,EUTRAN~, T~measure,EUTRAN,~ and
T~evaluate,EUTRAN~

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| DRX cycle      | T~             | T~m            | T~ev           |
| length \[s\]   | detect,EUTRAN~ | easure,EUTRAN~ | aluate,EUTRAN~ |
|                | \[s\] (number  | \[s\] (number  |                |
|                | of DRX cycles) | of DRX cycles) | \[s\] (number  |
|                |                |                | of DRX cycles) |
+================+================+================+================+
| 0.32           | 11.52 (36)     | 1.28 (4)       | 5.12 (16)      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 0.64           | 17.92 (28)     | 1.28 (2)       | 5.12 (8)       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 1.28           | 32(25)         | 1.28 (1)       | 6.4 (5)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 2.56           | 58.88 (23)     | 2.56 (1)       | 7.68 (3)       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

Table 4.2.2.5-2: T~detect,EUTRAN\_HST~, T~measure,EUTRAN\_HST,~ and
T~evaluate,EUTRAN\_HST~ for UE configured with highSpeedMeasFlag-r16

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| DRX cycle      | T~dete         | T~measur       | T~evaluat      |
| length \[s\]   | ct,EURAN\_HST~ | e,EUTRAN\_HST~ | e,EUTRAN\_HST~ |
|                | \[s\] (number  | \[s\] (number  |                |
|                | of DRX cycles) | of DRX cycles) | \[s\] (number  |
|                |                |                | of DRX cycles) |
+================+================+================+================+
|                |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 0.32           | 4.16 (13)      | 0.64 (2)       | 0.96 (3)       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 0.64           | 7.68 (12)      | 1.28 (2)       | 1.92 (3)       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 1.28           | 8.96 (7)       | 1.28 (1)       | 3.84 (3)       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 2.56           | 58.88 (23)     | 2.56 (1)       | 7.68 (3)       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Note 1: When   |                |                |                |
| highSpe        |                |                |                |
| edMeasFlag-r16 |                |                |                |
| is configured, |                |                |                |
| the            |                |                |                |
| requirements   |                |                |                |
| apply only to  |                |                |                |
| UE supporting  |                |                |                |
| either         |                |                |                |
| *measurementEn |                |                |                |
| hancement-r16* |                |                |                |
| or             |                |                |                |
| *\[interRAT-Me |                |                |                |
| asurementEnhan |                |                |                |
| cement-r16\]*. |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

The requirements in Table 4.2.2.5-2 apply only when the UE supports
*measurementEnhancement-r16* or *interRAT-MeasurementEnhancement-r16*.
For UE not supporting either *measurementEnhancement-r16* or
*interRAT-MeasurementEnhancement-r16*, the UE is not required to meet
the requirements specified in Table 4.2.2.5-2.

#### 4.2.2.6 Maximum interruption in paging reception

UE shall perform the cell re-selection with minimum interruption in
monitoring downlink channels for paging reception.

At intra-frequency and inter-frequency cell re-selection, the UE shall
monitor the downlink of serving cell for paging reception until the UE
is capable to start monitoring downlink channels of the target
intra-frequency and inter-frequency cell for paging reception. The
interruption time shall not exceed T~SI-NR~ +
2\*T~target\_cell\_SMTC\_period~ ms. T~target\_cell\_SMTC\_period~ is
the periodicity of the SMTC occasions configured for the target NR cell.
If the target cell is in the PCI list of *smtc2-LP*, the SMTC
periodicity follows *smtc2-LP*; otherwise, the SMTC periodicity follows
*smtc*.

At inter-RAT cell re-selection, the UE shall monitor the downlink of
serving cell for paging reception until the UE is capable to start
monitoring downlink channels for paging reception of the target
inter-RAT cell. For NR to E-UTRAN cell re-selection the interruption
time must not exceed T~SI-EUTRA~ + 55 ms.

T~SI-NR~ is the time required for receiving all the relevant system
information data according to the reception procedure and the RRC
procedure delay of system information blocks defined in TS 38.331 \[2\]
for an NR cell.

T~SI-EUTRA~ is the time required for receiving all the relevant system
information data according to the reception procedure and the RRC
procedure delay of system information blocks defined in TS 36.331 \[16\]
for an E-UTRAN cell.

These requirements assume sufficient radio conditions, so that decoding
of system information can be made without errors and does not take into
account cell re-selection failure.

#### 4.2.2.7 General requirements

The UE shall search every layer of higher priority at least every
T~higher\_priority\_search~ = (60 \* N~layers~) seconds, where N~layers~
is the total number of higher priority NR and E-UTRA carrier frequencies
broadcasted in system information.

For a UE configured with early measurement reporting, while T331 is
running, Nlayers is the combined total number of higher priority NR and
E-UTRA carrier frequencies broadcasted in system information and
carriers configured for idle mode CA measurements.

Note: combined total number means that if a carrier is a high priority
carrier and additionally a carrier configured for idle mode CA
measurements, it only counts as one carrier.

#### 4.2.2.8 Minimum requirement at transitions

When switching from low mobility scenario or not-at-cell-edge scenario
to low mobility and not-at-cell-edge scenario during cell-reselection
period, the UE shall fulfill the requirements corresponding to low
mobility scenario or not-at-cell-edge scenario over measurement period
(T~relaxed~) and thereafter switch to requirements corresponding to low
mobility and not-at-cell-edge scenario. The measurement period,
T~relaxed~, is any of:

\- T~measure,NR\_Intra~ and T~evaluate,NR\_Intra,~ defined in section
4.2.2.9 for intra-frequency measurements on NR cells,

\- T~measure,NR\_Inter~ and T~evaluate,NR\_Inter~ defined in section
4.2.2.10 for inter-frequency measurements on NR cells and

\- T~measure,EUTRAN~ and T~evaluate,EUTRAN~ defined in sections 4.2.2.11
for inter-RAT E-UTRAN measurements.

When switching from low mobility and not-at-cell-edge scenario to low
mobility scenario or not-at-cell-edge scenario during cell-reselection
period, the UE shall fulfill the requirements corresponding to low
mobility scenario or not-at-cell-edge scenario upon fulfilling the
switching criteria.

When switching from normal mode to low mobility scenario or
not-at-cell-edge scenario or low mobility and not-at-cell-edge scenario
during cell-reselection period, the UE shall fulfill the requirements
corresponding to normal mode over measurement period (T~normal~) and
thereafter switch to requirements corresponding to low mobility scenario
or not-at-cell-edge scenario or low mobility and not-at-cell-edge
scenario. The measurement period, T~normal~, is any of:

\- T~measure,NR\_Intra~ and T~evaluate,NR\_Intra,~ defined in section
4.2.2.3 for intra-frequency measurements on NR cells,

\- T~measure,NR\_Inter~ and T~evaluate,NR\_Inter~ defined in section
4.2.2.4 for inter-frequency measurements on NR cells and

\- T~measure,EUTRAN~ and T~evaluate,EUTRAN~ defined in sections 4.2.2.5
for inter-RAT E-UTRAN measurements.

When switching from low mobility scenario or not-at-cell-edge scenario
or low mobility and not-at-cell-edge scenario to normal mode during
cell-reselection period, the UE shall fulfill the requirements
corresponding to normal mode upon fulfilling the switching criteria.

No requirement is defined for multiple transitions of scenarios within
one measurement period.

#### 4.2.2.9 Measurements of intra-frequency NR cells for UE configured with relaxed measurement criterion

##### 4.2.2.9.1 Introduction

This clause contains the requirements for measurements on
intra-frequency NR cells when Srxlev ≤ S~IntraSearchP~ or Squal ≤
S~IntraSearchQ~ and when the UE is configured any of the following
relaxed measurement critera:

\- Relaxed measurement criterion for UE with low mobility defined in
clause 5.2.4.9.1 in \[1\],

\- Relaxed measurement criterion for UE not-at-cell edge defined in
clause 5.2.4.9.2 in \[1\],

\- Both low mobility criterion and not-at-cell edge criterion as defined
in clauses 5.2.4.9.1 and 5.2.4.9.2 in \[1\] respectively.

##### 4.2.2.9.2 Measurements for UE fulfilling low mobility criterion

This clause contains requirements for measurements on intra-frequency NR
cells provided that:

\- UE is configured with *lowMobilityEvaluation* \[2\] criterion and UE
has fulfilled, or

\- UE is configured with both *lowMobilityEvaluation* \[2\] criterion
and *cellEdgeEvaluation* \[2\] criterion and
*combineRelaxedMeasCondition* \[2\] not configured, and UE has fulfilled
only the *lowMobilityEvaluation* \[2\] criterion.

The requirements defined in clause 4.2.2.3 apply for this clause except
that:

\- T~detect,NR\_Intra~ as specified in Table 4.2.2.9.2-1.

\- T~measure,NR\_Intra~ as specified in Table 4.2.2.9.2-1.

\- T~evaluate,NR\_Intra~ as specified in Table 4.2.2.9.2-1.

Table 4.2.2.9.2-1: T~detect,NR\_Intra,~ T~measure,NR\_Intra~ and
T~evaluate,NR\_Intra~

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| DRX      | Scaling  | T~d      | T~me     | T~eva    |          |
| cycle    | Factor   | etect,NR | asure,NR | luate,NR |          |
| length   | (N1)     | \_Intra~ | \_Intra~ | \_Intra~ |          |
| \[s\]    |          | \[s\]    | \[s\]    |          |          |
|          |          | (number  | (number  | \[s\]    |          |
|          |          | of DRX   | of DRX   | (number  |          |
|          |          | cycles)  | cycles)  | of DRX   |          |
|          |          |          |          | cycles)  |          |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+
|          | FR1      | FR       |          |          |          |
|          |          | 2^Note1^ |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 0.32     | 1        | 8        | 11.52 x  | 1.28 x   | 5.12 x   |
|          |          |          | N1 x M2  | N1 x M2  | N1 x M2  |
|          |          |          | x K1 (36 | x K1 (4  | x K1 (16 |
|          |          |          | x N1 x   | x N1 x   | x N1 x   |
|          |          |          | M2 x K1) | M2 x K1) | M2 x K1) |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 0.64     |          | 5        | 17.92 x  | 1.28 x   | 5.12 x   |
|          |          |          | N1 x K1  | N1 x K1  | N1 x K1  |
|          |          |          | (28 x N1 | (2 x N1  | (8 x N1  |
|          |          |          | x K1)    | x K1)    | x K1)    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 1.28     |          | 4        | 32 x N1  | 1.28 x   | 6.4 x N1 |
|          |          |          | x K1 (25 | N1 x K1  | x K1 (5  |
|          |          |          | x N1 x   | (1 x N1  | x N1 x   |
|          |          |          | K1)      | x K1)    | K1)      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 2.56     |          | 3        | 58.88 x  | 2.56 x   | 7.68 x   |
|          |          |          | N1 x K1  | N1 x K1  | N1 x K1  |
|          |          |          | (23 x N1 | (1 x N1  | (3 x N1  |
|          |          |          | x K1)    | x K1)    | x K1)    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Note 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Applies  |          |          |          |          |          |
| for UE   |          |          |          |          |          |
| su       |          |          |          |          |          |
| pporting |          |          |          |          |          |
| power    |          |          |          |          |          |
| class    |          |          |          |          |          |
| 2&3&4.   |          |          |          |          |          |
| For UE   |          |          |          |          |          |
| su       |          |          |          |          |          |
| pporting |          |          |          |          |          |
| power    |          |          |          |          |          |
| class 1, |          |          |          |          |          |
| N1 = 8   |          |          |          |          |          |
| for all  |          |          |          |          |          |
| DRX      |          |          |          |          |          |
| cycle    |          |          |          |          |          |
| length.  |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| Note 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| M2 = 1.5 |          |          |          |          |          |
| if SMTC  |          |          |          |          |          |
| per      |          |          |          |          |          |
| iodicity |          |          |          |          |          |
| of       |          |          |          |          |          |
| measured |          |          |          |          |          |
| intra-f  |          |          |          |          |          |
| requency |          |          |          |          |          |
| cell \>  |          |          |          |          |          |
| 20 ms;   |          |          |          |          |          |
| o        |          |          |          |          |          |
| therwise |          |          |          |          |          |
| M2=1. If |          |          |          |          |          |
| high     |          |          |          |          |          |
| layer    |          |          |          |          |          |
| si       |          |          |          |          |          |
| gnalling |          |          |          |          |          |
| *smtc2   |          |          |          |          |          |
| -LP-r16* |          |          |          |          |          |
| is       |          |          |          |          |          |
| con      |          |          |          |          |          |
| figured, |          |          |          |          |          |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |
| cells    |          |          |          |          |          |
| i        |          |          |          |          |          |
| ndicated |          |          |          |          |          |
| in the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| *p       |          |          |          |          |          |
| ci-List* |          |          |          |          |          |
| p        |          |          |          |          |          |
| arameter |          |          |          |          |          |
| in       |          |          |          |          |          |
| *smtc2-  |          |          |          |          |          |
| LP-r16*, |          |          |          |          |          |
| the SMTC |          |          |          |          |          |
| per      |          |          |          |          |          |
| iodicity |          |          |          |          |          |
| cor      |          |          |          |          |          |
| responds |          |          |          |          |          |
| to the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| value of |          |          |          |          |          |
| higher   |          |          |          |          |          |
| layer    |          |          |          |          |          |
| p        |          |          |          |          |          |
| arameter |          |          |          |          |          |
| *smtc2-  |          |          |          |          |          |
| LP-r16*; |          |          |          |          |          |
| for the  |          |          |          |          |          |
| other    |          |          |          |          |          |
| cells,   |          |          |          |          |          |
| the SMTC |          |          |          |          |          |
| per      |          |          |          |          |          |
| iodicity |          |          |          |          |          |
| cor      |          |          |          |          |          |
| responds |          |          |          |          |          |
| to the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| value of |          |          |          |          |          |
| higher   |          |          |          |          |          |
| layer    |          |          |          |          |          |
| p        |          |          |          |          |          |
| arameter |          |          |          |          |          |
| *smtc*.  |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| Note 3:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| K1 = 3   |          |          |          |          |          |
| is the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| mea      |          |          |          |          |          |
| surement |          |          |          |          |          |
| re       |          |          |          |          |          |
| laxation |          |          |          |          |          |
| factor   |          |          |          |          |          |
| ap       |          |          |          |          |          |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |
| for UE   |          |          |          |          |          |
| fu       |          |          |          |          |          |
| lfilling |          |          |          |          |          |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |
| *lowMob  |          |          |          |          |          |
| ilityEva |          |          |          |          |          |
| luation* |          |          |          |          |          |
| \[2\]    |          |          |          |          |          |
| cr       |          |          |          |          |          |
| iterion. |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

##### 4.2.2.9.3 Measurements for UE fulfilling not-at-cell edge criterion

This clause contains requirements for measurements on intra-frequency NR
cells provided that:

\- UE is configured with *cellEdgeEvaluation* \[2\] criterion and UE has
fulfilled, or

\- UE is configured with both *lowMobilityEvaluation* \[2\] criterion
and *cellEdgeEvaluation* \[2\] criteria and
*combineRelaxedMeasCondition* \[2\] not configured, and UE has fulfilled
only the *cellEdgeEvaluation* \[2\] criterion.

The requirements defined in clause 4.2.2.3 apply for this clause except
that:

\- T~detect,NR\_Intra~ as specified in Table 4.2.2.9.3-1.

\- T~measure,NR\_Intra~ as specified in Table 4.2.2.9.3-1.

\- T~evaluate,NR\_Intra~ as specified in Table 4.2.2.9.3-1.

Table 4.2.2.9.3-1: T~detect,NR\_Intra,~ T~measure,NR\_Intra~ and
T~evaluate,NR\_Intra~

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| DRX      | Scaling  | T~d      | T~me     | T~eva    |          |
| cycle    | Factor   | etect,NR | asure,NR | luate,NR |          |
| length   | (N1)     | \_Intra~ | \_Intra~ | \_Intra~ |          |
| \[s\]    |          | \[s\]    | \[s\]    |          |          |
|          |          | (number  | (number  | \[s\]    |          |
|          |          | of DRX   | of DRX   | (number  |          |
|          |          | cycles)  | cycles)  | of DRX   |          |
|          |          |          |          | cycles)  |          |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+
|          | FR1      | FR       |          |          |          |
|          |          | 2^Note1^ |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 0.32     | 1        | 8        | 11.52 x  | 1.28 x   | 5.12 x   |
|          |          |          | N1 x M2  | N1 x M2  | N1 x M2  |
|          |          |          | x K1 (36 | x K1 (4  | x K1 (16 |
|          |          |          | x N1 x   | x N1 x   | x N1 x   |
|          |          |          | M2 x K1) | M2 x K1) | M2 x K1) |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 0.64     |          | 5        | 17.92 x  | 1.28 x   | 5.12 x   |
|          |          |          | N1 x K1  | N1 x K1  | N1 x K1  |
|          |          |          | (28 x N1 | (2 x N1  | (8 x N1  |
|          |          |          | x K1)    | x K1)    | x K1)    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 1.28     |          | 4        | 32 x N1  | 1.28 x   | 6.4 x N1 |
|          |          |          | x K1 (25 | N1 x K1  | x K1 (5  |
|          |          |          | x N1 x   | (1 x N1  | x N1 x   |
|          |          |          | K1)      | x K1)    | K1)      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 2.56     |          | 3        | 58.88 x  | 2.56 x   | 7.68 x   |
|          |          |          | N1 x K1  | N1 x K1  | N1 x K1  |
|          |          |          | (23 x N1 | (1 x N1  | (3 x N1  |
|          |          |          | x K1)    | x K1)    | x K1)    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Note 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Applies  |          |          |          |          |          |
| for UE   |          |          |          |          |          |
| su       |          |          |          |          |          |
| pporting |          |          |          |          |          |
| power    |          |          |          |          |          |
| class    |          |          |          |          |          |
| 2&3&4.   |          |          |          |          |          |
| For UE   |          |          |          |          |          |
| su       |          |          |          |          |          |
| pporting |          |          |          |          |          |
| power    |          |          |          |          |          |
| class 1, |          |          |          |          |          |
| N1 = 8   |          |          |          |          |          |
| for all  |          |          |          |          |          |
| DRX      |          |          |          |          |          |
| cycle    |          |          |          |          |          |
| length.  |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| Note 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| M2 = 1.5 |          |          |          |          |          |
| if SMTC  |          |          |          |          |          |
| per      |          |          |          |          |          |
| iodicity |          |          |          |          |          |
| of       |          |          |          |          |          |
| measured |          |          |          |          |          |
| intra-f  |          |          |          |          |          |
| requency |          |          |          |          |          |
| cell \>  |          |          |          |          |          |
| 20 ms;   |          |          |          |          |          |
| o        |          |          |          |          |          |
| therwise |          |          |          |          |          |
| M2=1. If |          |          |          |          |          |
| high     |          |          |          |          |          |
| layer    |          |          |          |          |          |
| si       |          |          |          |          |          |
| gnalling |          |          |          |          |          |
| *smtc2   |          |          |          |          |          |
| -LP-r16* |          |          |          |          |          |
| is       |          |          |          |          |          |
| con      |          |          |          |          |          |
| figured, |          |          |          |          |          |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |
| cells    |          |          |          |          |          |
| i        |          |          |          |          |          |
| ndicated |          |          |          |          |          |
| in the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| *p       |          |          |          |          |          |
| ci-List* |          |          |          |          |          |
| p        |          |          |          |          |          |
| arameter |          |          |          |          |          |
| in       |          |          |          |          |          |
| *smtc2-  |          |          |          |          |          |
| LP-r16*, |          |          |          |          |          |
| the SMTC |          |          |          |          |          |
| per      |          |          |          |          |          |
| iodicity |          |          |          |          |          |
| cor      |          |          |          |          |          |
| responds |          |          |          |          |          |
| to the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| value of |          |          |          |          |          |
| higher   |          |          |          |          |          |
| layer    |          |          |          |          |          |
| p        |          |          |          |          |          |
| arameter |          |          |          |          |          |
| *smtc2-  |          |          |          |          |          |
| LP-r16*; |          |          |          |          |          |
| for the  |          |          |          |          |          |
| other    |          |          |          |          |          |
| cells,   |          |          |          |          |          |
| the SMTC |          |          |          |          |          |
| per      |          |          |          |          |          |
| iodicity |          |          |          |          |          |
| cor      |          |          |          |          |          |
| responds |          |          |          |          |          |
| to the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| value of |          |          |          |          |          |
| higher   |          |          |          |          |          |
| layer    |          |          |          |          |          |
| p        |          |          |          |          |          |
| arameter |          |          |          |          |          |
| *smtc*.  |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| Note 3:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| K1 = 3   |          |          |          |          |          |
| is the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| mea      |          |          |          |          |          |
| surement |          |          |          |          |          |
| re       |          |          |          |          |          |
| laxation |          |          |          |          |          |
| factor   |          |          |          |          |          |
| ap       |          |          |          |          |          |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |
| for UE   |          |          |          |          |          |
| fu       |          |          |          |          |          |
| lfilling |          |          |          |          |          |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |
| *cel     |          |          |          |          |          |
| lEdgeEva |          |          |          |          |          |
| luation* |          |          |          |          |          |
| \[2\]    |          |          |          |          |          |
| cr       |          |          |          |          |          |
| iterion. |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

##### 4.2.2.9.4 Measurements for UE fulfilling low mobility and not-at-cell edge criteria

This clause contains requirements for measurements on intra-frequency NR
cells provided that:

\- UE is configured with both *lowMobilityEvaluation* \[2\] criterion
and *cellEdgeEvaluation* \[2\] criterion, and

\- has also fulfilled both criteria, and

\- less than 1 hour have passed since measurements for cell reselection
were last performed

In this case the UE is not required to meet T~detect,NR\_Intra,~
T~measure,NR\_Intra~ and T~evaluate,NR\_Intra~ as defined in Table
4.2.2.3-1.

#### 4.2.2.10 Measurements of inter-frequency NR cells for UE configured with relaxed measurement criterion

##### 4.2.2.10.1 Introduction

This clause contains the requirements for measurements on
inter-frequency NR cells when the UE is configured with any of following
relaxed measurement criteria:

\- Relaxed measurement criterion for UE with low mobility defined in
clause 5.2.4.9.1 in \[1\],

\- Relaxed measurement criterion for UE not-at-cell edge defined in
clause 5.2.4. 9.2 in \[1\],

\- Both low mobility criterion and not-at-cell edge criterion as defined
in clauses 5.2.4. 9.1 and 5.2.4.9.2 in \[1\] respectively.

##### 4.2.2.10.2 Measurements for UE fulfilling low mobility criterion

This clause contains requirements for measurements on inter-frequency NR
cells provided that:

\- UE is configured with *lowMobilityEvaluation* \[2\] criterion and UE
has fulfilled, or

\- UE is configured with both *lowMobilityEvaluation* \[2\] and
*cellEdgeEvaluation* \[2\] criterion and *combineRelaxedMeasCondition*
\[2\] not configured, and

\- UE has fulfilled only the *lowMobilityEvaluation* \[2\] criterion.

The UE shall not relax measurements on NR inter-frequency carriers
configured for idle mode CA/DC measurements (defined in clause 4.4)
while T331 is running.

When Srxlev ≤ S~nonIntraSearchP~ or Squal ≤ S~nonIntraSearchQ~ then the
requirements are defined as follows: :

\- T~detect,NR\_Inter\_Relax~ as specified in Table 4.2.2.10.2-1.

\- T~measure,NR\_Inter\_Relax~ as specified in Table 4.2.2.10.2-1.

\- T~evaluate,NR\_Inter\_Relax~ as specified in Table 4.2.2.10.2-1.

\- The UE shall be able to evaluate whether a newly detectable
inter-frequency NR cell meets the reselection criteria defined in
TS38.304 \[1\] within N~carrier\_Relax~ \* T~detect,NR\_Inter\_Relax~ +
N~carrier\_Non\_relax~ \* T~detect,NR\_Inter~. Cells which have been
detected shall be measured at least every N~carrier\_Relax~ \*
T~measure,NR\_Inter\_Relax~ + N~carrier\_Non\_relax~ \*
T~measure,NR\_Inter.~ The UE shall be able to evaluate that an already
identified inter-frequency NR cell has met reselection criterion defined
in TS 38.304 \[1\] within N~carrier\_Relax~
\*T~evaluate,NR\_Inter\_Relax~ + N~carrier\_Non\_relax~ \*
T~evaluate,NR\_Inter~.

-    When T331 is running,

> -     The parameter N~carrier\_Relax~ is the total number of NR
> inter-frequency carriers not configured for idle mode CA/DC
> measurements.
>
> -    The parameter N~carrier\_Non\_relax~ is the total number of NR
> inter-frequency carriers configured for idle mode CA/DC measurements.

-    When T331 is not running,

> \- ~     ~The parameter N~carrier\_Relax~ is the total number of
> inter-frequency carriers configured for mobility measurements only and
> the number of inter-frequency carriers configured for both mobility
> measurement and idle mode CA/DC measurements.

-    The parameter N~carrier\_Non\_relax~ =0.

When Srxlev \> S~nonIntraSearchP~ and Squal \> S~nonIntraSearchQ~ and
the UE is configured with *highPriorityMeasRelax* \[2\] then the UE
shall search for inter-frequency layers of higher priority at least
every K2\*T~higher\_priority\_search\ seconds~ where
T~higher\_priority\_search~ is described in clause 4.2.2.7 and, K2 = 60.
Otherwise if the UE is not configured with *highPriorityMeasRelax* \[2\]
then the UE shall search for inter-frequency layers of higher priority
at least every T~higher\_priority\_search~ where
T~higher\_priority\_search~ is described in clause 4.2.2.7.

Table 4.2.2.10.2-1: T~detect,NR\_Inter\_Relax,~
T~measure,NR\_Inter\_Relax~ and T~evaluate,NR\_Inter\_Relax~

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| DRX      | Scaling  | T~       | T~m      | T~ev     |          |
| cycle    | Factor   | detect,N | easure,N | aluate,N |          |
| length   | (N1)     | R\_Inter | R\_Inter | R\_Inter |          |
| \[s\]    |          | \_Relax~ | \_Relax~ | \_Relax~ |          |
|          |          | \[s\]    | \[s\]    | \[s\]    |          |
|          |          | (number  | (number  | (number  |          |
|          |          | of DRX   | of DRX   | of DRX   |          |
|          |          |          | cycles)  | cycles)  |          |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+
|          | FR1      | FR       | cycles)  |          |          |
|          |          | 2^Note1^ |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 0.32     | 1        | 8        | 11.52 x  | 1.28 x   | 5.12 x   |
|          |          |          | N1 x 1.5 | N1 x 1.5 | N1 x 1.5 |
|          |          |          | x K1 (36 | x K1 (4  | x K1 (16 |
|          |          |          | x N1 x   | x N1 x   | x N1 x   |
|          |          |          | 1.5 x    | 1.5 x    | 1.5 x    |
|          |          |          | K1)      | K1)      | K1)      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 0.64     |          | 5        | 17.92x   | 1.28 x   | 5.12 x   |
|          |          |          | N1 x K1  | N1 x K1  | N1 x K1  |
|          |          |          | (28 x N1 | (2 x N1  | (8 x N1  |
|          |          |          | x K1)    | x K1)    | x K1)    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 1.28     |          | 4        | 32 x N1  | 1.28 x   | 6.4 x N1 |
|          |          |          | x K1 (25 | N1 x K1  | x K1 (5  |
|          |          |          | x N1 x   | (1 x N1  | x N1 x   |
|          |          |          | K1)      | x K1)    | K1)      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 2.56     |          | 3        | 58.88 x  | 2.56 x   | 7.68 x   |
|          |          |          | N1 x K1  | N1 x K1  | N1 x K1  |
|          |          |          | (23 x N1 | (1 x N1  | (3 x N1  |
|          |          |          | x K1)    | x K1)    | x K1)    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Note 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Applies  |          |          |          |          |          |
| for UE   |          |          |          |          |          |
| su       |          |          |          |          |          |
| pporting |          |          |          |          |          |
| power    |          |          |          |          |          |
| class    |          |          |          |          |          |
| 2&3&4.   |          |          |          |          |          |
| For UE   |          |          |          |          |          |
| su       |          |          |          |          |          |
| pporting |          |          |          |          |          |
| power    |          |          |          |          |          |
| class 1, |          |          |          |          |          |
| N1 = 8   |          |          |          |          |          |
| for all  |          |          |          |          |          |
| DRX      |          |          |          |          |          |
| cycle    |          |          |          |          |          |
| length.  |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| Note 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| K1 = 3   |          |          |          |          |          |
| is the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| mea      |          |          |          |          |          |
| surement |          |          |          |          |          |
| re       |          |          |          |          |          |
| laxation |          |          |          |          |          |
| factor   |          |          |          |          |          |
| ap       |          |          |          |          |          |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |
| for UE   |          |          |          |          |          |
| fu       |          |          |          |          |          |
| lfilling |          |          |          |          |          |
| the low  |          |          |          |          |          |
| m        |          |          |          |          |          |
| obility. |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

##### 4.2.2.10.3 Measurements for UE fulfilling not-at-cell edge criterion

This clause contains requirements for measurements on inter-frequency NR
cells provided that:

\- UE is configured with *cellEdgeEvaluation* \[2\] criterion, and UE
has fulfilled or

\- UE is configured with both *lowMobilityEvaluation* \[2\] criterion
and *cellEdgeEvaluation* \[2\] criterion and
*combineRelaxedMeasCondition* \[2\] not configured, and

\- UE has fulfilled only the *cellEdgeEvaluation* \[2\] criterion.

The UE shall not relax measurements on NR inter-frequency carriers
configured for idle mode CA/DC measurements (defined in clause 4.4)
while T331 is running.

When Srxlev ≤ S~nonIntraSearchP~ or Squal ≤ S~nonIntraSearchQ~ then the
requirements defined in clause 4.2.2.4 apply for this clause except
that:

\- T~detect,NR\_Inter\_Relax~ as specified in Table 4.2.2.10.3-1.

\- T~measure,NR\_Inter\_Relax~ as specified in Table 4.2.2.10.3-1.

\- T~evaluate,NR\_Inter\_Relax~ as specified in Table 4.2.2.10.3-1.- The
UE shall be able to evaluate whether a newly detectable inter-frequency
NR cell meets the reselection criteria defined in TS38.304 \[1\] within
N~carrier\_Relax~ \* T~detect,NR\_Inter\_Relax~ + N~carrier\_Non\_relax~
\* T~detect,NR\_Inter~. Cells which have been detected shall be measured
at least every N~carrier\_Relax~ \* T~measure,NR\_Inter\_Relax~ +
N~carrier\_Non\_relax~ \* T~measure,NR\_Inter.~ The UE shall be able to
evaluate that an already identified inter-frequency NR cell has met
reselection criterion defined in TS 38.304 \[1\] within
N~carrier\_Relax~ \* T~evaluate,NR\_Inter\_Relax~ +
N~carrier\_Non\_relax~ \* T~evaluate,NR\_Inter~.

-    When T331 is running,

> -     The parameter N~carrier\_Relax~ is the total number of NR
> inter-frequency carriers not configured for idle mode CA/DC
> measurements.
>
> -    The parameter N~carrier\_Non\_relax~ is the total number of NR
> inter-frequency carriers configured for idle mode CA/DC measurements.

-    When T331 is not running,

> \- ~     ~The parameter N~carrier\_Relax~ is the total number of
> inter-frequency carriers configured for mobility measurements only and
> the number of inter-frequency carriers configured for both mobility
> measurement and idle mode CA/DC measurements.
>
> -    The parameter N~carrier\_Non\_relax~ =0.
>
> When Srxlev \> SnonIntraSearchP and Squal \> SnonIntraSearchQ and
> regardless of whether the UE is configured with
> *highPriorityMeasRelax* \[2\] or not, the UE shall search for
> inter-frequency layers of higher priority at least every
> T~higher\_priority~\_search where T~higher\_priority\_search~ is
> described in clause 4.2.2.7

Table 4.2.2.10.3-1: T~detect,NR\_Inter\_Relax,~
T~measure,NR\_Inter\_Relax~ and T~evaluate,NR\_Inter\_Relax~

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| DRX      | Scaling  | T~       | T~m      | T~ev     |          |
| cycle    | Factor   | detect,N | easure,N | aluate,N |          |
| length   | (N1)     | R\_Inter | R\_Inter | R\_Inter |          |
| \[s\]    |          | \_Relax~ | \_Relax~ | \_Relax~ |          |
|          |          | \[s\]    | \[s\]    | \[s\]    |          |
|          |          | (number  | (number  | (number  |          |
|          |          | of DRX   | of DRX   | of DRX   |          |
|          |          | cycles)  | cycles)  | cycles)  |          |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+
|          | FR1      | FR       |          |          |          |
|          |          | 2^Note1^ |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 0.32     | 1        | 8        | 11.52 x  | 1.28 x   | 5.12 x   |
|          |          |          | N1 x 1.5 | N1 x 1.5 | N1 x 1.5 |
|          |          |          | x K1 (36 | x K1 (4  | x K1 (16 |
|          |          |          | x N1 x   | x N1 x   | x N1 x   |
|          |          |          | 1.5 x    | 1.5 x    | 1.5 x    |
|          |          |          | K1)      | K1)      | K1)      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 0.64     |          | 5        | 17.92x   | 1.28 x   | 5.12 x   |
|          |          |          | N1 x K1  | N1 x K1  | N1 x K1  |
|          |          |          | (28 x N1 | (2 x N1  | (8 x N1  |
|          |          |          | x K1)    | x K1)    | x K1)    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 1.28     |          | 4        | 32 x N1  | 1.28 x   | 6.4 x N1 |
|          |          |          | x K1 (25 | N1 x K1  | x K1 (5  |
|          |          |          | x N1 x   | (1 x N1  | x N1 x   |
|          |          |          | K1)      | x K1)    | K1)      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 2.56     |          | 3        | 58.88 x  | 2.56 x   | 7.68 x   |
|          |          |          | N1 x K1  | N1 x K1  | N1 x K1  |
|          |          |          | (23 x N1 | (1 x N1  | (3 x N1  |
|          |          |          | x K1)    | x K1)    | x K1)    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Note 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Applies  |          |          |          |          |          |
| for UE   |          |          |          |          |          |
| su       |          |          |          |          |          |
| pporting |          |          |          |          |          |
| power    |          |          |          |          |          |
| class    |          |          |          |          |          |
| 2&3&4.   |          |          |          |          |          |
| For UE   |          |          |          |          |          |
| su       |          |          |          |          |          |
| pporting |          |          |          |          |          |
| power    |          |          |          |          |          |
| class 1, |          |          |          |          |          |
| N1 = 8   |          |          |          |          |          |
| for all  |          |          |          |          |          |
| DRX      |          |          |          |          |          |
| cycle    |          |          |          |          |          |
| length.  |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| Note 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| K1 = 3   |          |          |          |          |          |
| is the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| mea      |          |          |          |          |          |
| surement |          |          |          |          |          |
| re       |          |          |          |          |          |
| laxation |          |          |          |          |          |
| factor   |          |          |          |          |          |
| ap       |          |          |          |          |          |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |
| for UE   |          |          |          |          |          |
| fu       |          |          |          |          |          |
| lfilling |          |          |          |          |          |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |
| *cel     |          |          |          |          |          |
| lEdgeEva |          |          |          |          |          |
| luation* |          |          |          |          |          |
| \[2\]    |          |          |          |          |          |
| cr       |          |          |          |          |          |
| iterion. |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

##### 4.2.2.10.4 Measurements for UE fulfilling low mobility and not-at-cell edge criterion

This clause contains requirements for measurements on inter-frequency NR
cells provided that:

\- T331 timer is not running for EMR measurements on inter-frequency NR
carrier, and

\- UE is configured with both *lowMobilityEvaluation* \[2\] criterion
and *cellEdgeEvaluation* \[2\] criterion, and

\- Has also fulfilled both criteria

In this case the UE is not required to meet T~detect,NR\_Inter,~
T~measure,NR\_Inter~ and T~evaluate,NR\_Inter~ as defined in Table
4.2.2.4-1.

When Srxlev ≤ S~nonIntraSearchP~ or Squal ≤ S~nonIntraSearchQ~, the UE
shall search for, measure and evaluate inter-frequency layers of higher,
equal or lower priority at least every 1 hour.

When Srxlev \> S~nonIntraSearchP~ and Squal \> S~nonIntraSearchQ~, the
UE shall search for inter-frequency layers of higher priority at least
every K2\*T~higher\_priority\_search~ where T~higher\_priority\_search~
is described in clause 4.2.2.7 and K2=60.

#### 4.2.2.11 Measurements of inter-RAT E-UTRAN cells for UE configured with relaxed measurement criterion

##### 4.2.2.11.1 Introduction

This clause contains the requirements for measurements on inter-RAT
E-UTRAN cells when the UE is configured with any of following relaxed
measurement critera:

\- Relaxed measurement criterion for UE with low mobility defined in
clause 5.2.4.9.1 in \[1\],

\- Relaxed measurement criterion for UE not-at-cell edge defined in
clause 5.2.4.9.2 in \[1\],

\- Both low mobility criterion and not-at-cell edge criterion as defined
in clauses 5.2.4.9.1 and 5.2.4.9.2 in \[1\] respectively.

##### 4.2.2.11.2 Measurements for UE fulfilling low mobility criterion

This clause contains requirements for measurements on inter-RAT E-UTRAN
cells provided that:

\- T331 timer is not running for EMR measurements on inter-RAT E-UTRAN,
and

\- UE is configured with *lowMobilityEvaluation* \[2\] criterion and UE
has fulfilled, or

\- UE is configured with both *lowMobilityEvaluation* \[2\] criterion
and *cellEdgeEvaluation* \[2\] criterion and
*combineRelaxedMeasCondition* \[2\] not configured, and

\- UE has fulfilled only the *lowMobilityEvaluation* \[2\] criterion.

The UE shall not relax measurements on inter-RAT E-UTRAN carriers
configured for idle mode CA/DC measurements (defined in clause 4.4)
while T331 is running.

When Srxlev ≤ S~nonIntraSearchP~ and Squal ≤ S~nonIntraSearchQ~ then the
requirements defined in clause 4.2.2.5 apply for this clause except
that:

\- T~detect,EUTRAN\_Relax~ as specified in Table 4.2.2.11.2-1.

\- T~measure,EUTRAN\_Relax~ as specified in Table 4.2.2.11.2-1.

\- T~evaluate,EUTRAN\_Relax~ as specified in Table 4.2.2.11.2-1.

\- The UE shall be able to evaluate whether a newly detectable inter-RAT
E-UTRAN cell meets the reselection criteria defined in TS38.304 \[1\]
within N~carrier\_Relax~ \* T~detect,EUTRAN\_Relax~ +
N~carrier\_Non\_relax~ \* T~detect,EUTRAN~. Cells which have been
detected shall be measured at least every N~carrier\_Relax~ \*
T~measure,EUTRAN\_Relax~ + N~carrier\_Non\_relax~ \* T~measure,EUTRAN.~
The UE shall be able to evaluate that an already identified inter-RAT
E-UTRAN cell has met reselection criterion defined in TS 38.304 \[1\]
within N~EUTRAN\ carrier\_Relax~ \* T~evaluate,EUTRAN\_Relax~ +
N~EUTRAN\ carrier\_Non\_relax~ \* T~evaluate,EUTRAN~.

-    When T331 is running,

> -     The parameter N~carrier\_Relax~ is the total number of inter-RAT
> E-UTRAN carriers not configured for idle mode CA/DC measurements.
>
> -    The parameter N~carrier\_Non\_relax~ is the total number of
> inter-RAT E-UTRAN carriers configured for idle mode CA/DC
> measurements.

-    When T331 is not running,

> \- ~     ~The parameter N~carrier\_Relax~ is the total number of
> inter-RAT E-UTRAN carriers configured for mobility measurements only
> and the number of inter-RAT E-UTRAN carriers configured for both
> mobility measurement and idle mode CA/DC measurements.
>
> -    The parameter N~carrier\_Non\_relax~ =0.

When Srxlev \> S~nonIntraSearchP~ and Squal \> S~nonIntraSearchQ~ and
the UE is configured with *highPriorityMeasRelax* \[2\] then the UE
shall search for E-UTRA inter-RAT frequency layers of higher priority at
least every K2\*T~higher\_priority\_search\ seconds~ where
T~higher\_priority\_search~ is described in clause 4.2.2.7 and, K2 = 60.
Otherwise if the UE is not configured with *highPriorityMeasRelax* \[2\]
then the UE shall search for E-UTRA inter-RAT frequency layers of higher
priority at least every T~higher\_priority\_search~ where
T~higher\_priority\_search~ is described in clause 4.2.2.7.

Table 4.2.2.11.2-1: T~detect,EUTRAN\_Relax~, T~measure,EUTRAN\_Relax,~
and T~evaluate,EUTRAN\_Relax~

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| DRX cycle      | T~detect,      | T~measure,     | T~evaluate,    |
| length \[s\]   | EUTRAN\_Relax~ | EUTRAN\_Relax~ | EUTRAN\_Relax~ |
|                | \[s\] (number  | \[s\] (number  |                |
|                | of DRX cycles) | of DRX cycles) | \[s\] (number  |
|                |                |                | of DRX cycles) |
+================+================+================+================+
| 0.32           | 11.52 x K1 (36 | 1.28 x K1 (4 x | 5.12 x K1 (16  |
|                | x K1)          | K1)            | x K1)          |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 0.64           | 17.92 x K1 (28 | 1.28 x K1 (2 x | 5.12 x K1 (8 x |
|                | x K1)          | K1)            | K1)            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 1.28           | 32 x K1 (25 x  | 1.28 x K1 (1 x | 6.4 x K1 (5 x  |
|                | K1)            | K1)            | K1)            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 2.56           | 58.88 x K1 (23 | 2.56 x K1 (1 x | 7.68 x K1 (3 x |
|                | x K1)          | K1)            | K1)            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Note 1: K1 = 3 |                |                |                |
| is the         |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| relaxation     |                |                |                |
| factor         |                |                |                |
| applicable for |                |                |                |
| UE fulfilling  |                |                |                |
| the            |                |                |                |
| *lowMobil      |                |                |                |
| ityEvaluation* |                |                |                |
| \[2\]          |                |                |                |
| criterion.     |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

##### 4.2.2.11.3 Measurements for UE fulfilling with not-at-cell edge criterion

This clause contains requirements for measurements on inter-RAT E-UTRAN
cells provided that:

\- T331 timer is not running for EMR measurements on inter-RAT E-UTRAN,
and

\- UE is configured with *cellEdgeEvaluation* \[2\] criterion and UE has
fulfilled, or

\- UE is configured with both *lowMobilityEvaluation* \[2\] criterion
and *cellEdgeEvaluation* \[2\] criterion and
*combineRelaxedMeasCondition* \[2\] not configured, and

\- UE has fulfilled only the *cellEdgeEvaluation* \[2\] criterion.

The UE shall not relax measurements on inter-RAT E-UTRAN carriers
configured for idle mode CA/DC measurements (defined in clause 4.4)
while T331 is running.

When Srxlev ≤ S~nonIntraSearchP~ and Squal ≤ S~nonIntraSearchQ~ then the
requirements defined in clause 4.2.2.5 apply for this clause except
that:

\- T~detect,EUTRAN\_Relax~ as specified in Table 4.2.2.11.3-1.

\- T~measure,EUTRAN\_Relax~ as specified in Table 4.2.2.11.3-1.

\- T~evaluate,EUTRAN\_Relax~ as specified in Table 4.2.2.11.3-1.

\- The UE shall be able to evaluate whether a newly detectable inter-RAT
E-UTRAN cell meets the reselection criteria defined in TS38.304 \[1\]
within N~carrier\_Relax~ \* T~detect,EUTRAN\_Relax~ +
N~carrier\_Non\_relax~ \* T~detect,EUTRAN~. Cells which have been
detected shall be measured at least every N~carrier\_Relax~ \*
T~measure,EUTRAN\_Relax~ + N~carrier\_Non\_relax~ \* T~measure,EUTRAN.~
The UE shall be able to evaluate that an already identified inter-RAT
E-UTRAN cell has met reselection criterion defined in TS 38.304 \[1\]
within N~EUTRAN\ carrier\_Relax~ \* T~evaluate,EUTRAN\_Relax~ +
N~EUTRAN\ carrier\_Non\_relax~ \* T~evaluate,EUTRAN~.

-    When T331 is running,

> -     The parameter N~carrier\_Relax~ is the total number of inter-RAT
> E-UTRAN carriers not configured for idle mode CA/DC measurements.
>
> -    The parameter N~carrier\_Non\_relax~ is the total number of
> inter-RAT E-UTRAN carriers configured for idle mode CA/DC
> measurements.

-    When T331 is not running,

> \- ~     ~The parameter N~carrier\_Relax~ is the total number of
> inter-RAT E-UTRAN carriers configured for mobility measurements only
> and the number of inter-RAT E-UTRAN carriers configured for both
> mobility measurement and idle mode CA/DC measurements.
>
> -    The parameter N~carrier\_Non\_relax~ =0.

When Srxlev \> S~nonIntraSearchP~ and Squal \> S~nonIntraSearchQ~ and
regardless of whether the UE is configured with *highPriorityMeasRelax*
\[2\] or not, the UE shall search for inter-RAT E-UTRAN frequency layers
of higher priority at least every T~higher\_priority~\_search where
T~higher\_priority\_search~ is described in clause 4.2.2.7.

Table 4.2.2.11.3-1: T~detect,EUTRAN\_Relax~, T~measure,EUTRAN\_Relax,~
and T~evaluate,EUTRAN\_Relax~

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| DRX cycle      | T~             | T~m            | T~ev           |
| length \[s\]   | detect,EUTRAN~ | easure,EUTRAN~ | aluate,EUTRAN~ |
|                | \[s\] (number  | \[s\] (number  |                |
|                | of DRX cycles) | of DRX cycles) | \[s\] (number  |
|                |                |                | of DRX cycles) |
+================+================+================+================+
| 0.32           | 11.52 x K1 (36 | 1.28 x K1 (4 x | 5.12 x K1 (16  |
|                | x K1)          | K1)            | x K1)          |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 0.64           | 17.92 x K1 (28 | 1.28 x K1 (2 x | 5.12 x K1 (8 x |
|                | x K1)          | K1)            | K1)            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 1.28           | 32 x K1 (25 x  | 1.28 x K1 (1 x | 6.4 x K1 (5 x  |
|                | K1)            | K1)            | K1)            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 2.56           | 58.88 x K1 (23 | 2.56 x K1 (1 x | 7.68 x K1 (3 x |
|                | x K1)          | K1)            | K1)            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Note 1: K1 = 3 |                |                |                |
| is the         |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| relaxation     |                |                |                |
| factor         |                |                |                |
| applicable for |                |                |                |
| UE fulfilling  |                |                |                |
| the            |                |                |                |
| *cellE         |                |                |                |
| dgeEvaluation* |                |                |                |
| \[2\]          |                |                |                |
| criterion.     |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

##### 4.2.2.11.4 Measurements for UE fulfilling low mobility and not-at-cell edge criterion

This clause contains requirements for measurements on inter-RAT E-UTRAN
cells provided that:

\- T331 timer is not running for EMR measurements on inter-RAT E-UTRAN,
and

\- UE is configured with both *lowMobilityEvaluation* \[2\] criterion
and *cellEdgeEvaluation* \[2\] criterion, and

\- has also fulfilled both criteria

In this case the UE is not required to meet T~detect,EUTRAN~ ,
T~measure,EUTRAN~ and T~evaluate,EUTRAN~ as defined in Table 4.2.2.5-1.

When Srxlev ≤ S~nonIntraSearchP~ or Squal ≤ S~nonIntraSearchQ~, the UE
shall search for, measure and evaluate inter-RAT E-UTRAN layers of
higher or lower priority at least every 1 hour.

When Srxlev \> S~nonIntraSearchP~ and Squal \> S~nonIntraSearchQ~, the
UE shall search for inter-RAT E-UTRAN of higher priority at least every
K2\*T~higher\_priority\_search~ where T~higher\_priority\_search~ is
described in clause 4.2.2.7 and K2=60.

4.2A Cell Re-selection when subject to CCA
------------------------------------------

### 4.2A.1 Introduction

The cell reselection procedure allows the UE to select a more suitable
cell and camp on it. The requirements in clauses 4.2A.2.3, 4.2A.2.4, and
4.2A.2.6, apply when at least the target cell is on a carrier frequency
subject to CCA, and the requirements in clauses 4.2A.2.2, and 4.2A.2.5
apply when at least the camping cell is on a carrier frequency subject
to CCA.

When the UE is in either *Camped* *Normally* state or *Camped on Any
Cell* state on a cell, the UE shall attempt to detect, synchronise, and
monitor intra-frequency, inter-frequency and inter-RAT cells indicated
by the serving cell. For intra-frequency and inter-frequency cells the
serving cell may not provide explicit neighbour list but carrier
frequency information and bandwidth information only. UE measurement
activity is also controlled by measurement rules defined in TS 38.304,
allowing the UE to limit its measurement activity.

In the requirements of clause 4.2A, the exceptions for side conditions
apply as follows:

\- for the UE capable of CA, the applicable exceptions for side
conditions are specified in Annex B, clause B.x.y for UE supporting CA
in FR1.

In the requirements of clause 4.2A.2, the term SMTC occasion not
available at the UE refers to when the SMTC contains SSBs configured by
gNB in a cell on a carrier frequency subject to CCA, but *N* candidate
SSB positions for the same SS/PBCH block index within the discovery
burst transmission window are not available at the UE due to DL CCA
failures at gNB during the corresponding detection, measurement, or
evaluation period, where:

\- For the cell detection procedure: *N* is at least one candidate SSB
position (NOTE: the one candidate SSB position for the cell detection
shall not be impacted by the set of candidate SSB positions which are
already being measured by the UE within the current measurement period
of the on-going measurements), and

\- For other procedures in clause 4.2A.2: *N* are the first two
successive candidate SSB positions when two or more candidate SSB
positions are configured for this SSB index in one discovery burst
transmission window, otherwise N is one candidate SSB position;

otherwise the SMTC occasion is considered as available at the UE.

### 4.2A.2 Requirements

#### 4.2A.2.1 UE measurement capability

For idle mode cell re-selection purposes, the UE shall be capable of
monitoring at least:

\- Intra-frequency carrier, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 7 NR inter-frequency carriers, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 7 FDD E-UTRA inter-RAT carriers, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 7 TDD E-UTRA inter-RAT carriers.

*In addition to the requirements defined above,* a UE supporting E-UTRA
measurements in RRC\_IDLE state shall be capable of monitoring a total
of at least 14 carrier frequency layers, which includes serving layer,
comprising of any above defined combination of E-UTRA FDD, E-UTRA TDD
and NR layers. The inter-frequency carriers include carriers on
unlicensed band and/or licensed band.

#### 4.2A.2.2 Measurement and evaluation when subject to CCA on the serving cell

The UE shall measure the SS-RSRP and SS-RSRQ level of the serving cell
and evaluate the cell selection criterion S defined in TS 38.304 \[1\]
for the serving cell at least once every (1+M~n~)\*M1\* DRX cycles in
N~serv\_CCA~ consecutive DRX cycles; where:

M1=2 if SMTC periodicity (T~SMTC~) \> 20 ms and DRX cycle ≤ 0.64 second,

otherwise M1=1.

M~n~ is the maximum separation in DRX cycles between two measurements
that are used for filtering.

The UE shall filter the SS-RSRP and SS-RSRQ measurements of the serving
cell using at least 2 measurements. Within the set of measurements used
for the filtering, at least two measurements shall be spaced by, at
least DRX cycle/2 but not separated in time by more than M~n~, where
M~n~=2.

If the UE has evaluated according to Table 4.2A.2.2-1 in N~serv\_CCA~
consecutive DRX cycles that the serving cell does not fulfil the cell
selection criterion S, the UE shall initiate the measurements of all
neighbour cells indicated by the serving cell, regardless of the
measurement rules currently limiting UE measurement activities.

UE shall initiate measurements on neighbour cells indicated by the
serving cell if it is unable to measure on the serving cell for at least
M~p~ consecutive number of DRX cycles each with at least one SMTC
occasion not available at the UE, where M~p~=4 when DRX cycle length
\<1.28 s, M~p~=2 when DRX cycle length ≥1.28 s.

 UE shall initiate the measurements on neighbour cells of any
intra-frequency or inter-frequency if it is unable to measure on serving
cell during at least consecutive M~q~ number of DRX cycles each with at
least one SMTC occasion not available at the UE, regardless of any
condition of S~nonIntraSearchP~ and S~nonIntraSearchQ~, where M~q~=8
when DRX cycle length \<1.28 s, M~q~=4 when DRX cycle length ≥1.28 s.

If the UE in RRC\_IDLE has not found any new suitable cell based on
searches and measurements using the intra-frequency, inter-frequency and
inter-RAT information indicated in the system information for 10 s, the
UE shall initiate cell selection procedures for the selected PLMN as
defined in TS 38.304 \[1\].

Table 4.2A.2.2-1: N~serv\_CCA~

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle length \[s\]           | N~serv\_CCA~ \[number of DRX     |
|                                  | cycles\]                         |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 0.32                             | M1\*4+M1\*M~s~                   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 0.64                             | M1\*4+M1\*M~s~                   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 1.28                             | 2+M~s~                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 2.56                             | 2+M~s~                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Note 1: M~s~ is the number of    |                                  |
| DRX cycles each with at least    |                                  |
| one SMTC occasion not available  |                                  |
| at the UE during N~serv~\_~CCA~, |                                  |
| and M~s~\< M~s,max~              |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Note2: M~s,max~=8 for DRX cycle  |                                  |
| length \< 1.28 s, M~s,max~ = 4   |                                  |
| for DRX cycle length ≥ 1.28 s.   |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

The UE shall restart the measurements used for serving cell evaluation
if M~s~ exceeds M~s,max~.

#### 4.2A.2.3 Measurements of intra-frequency NR cells when subject to CCA on the serving cell and target cell

The UE shall be able to identify new intra-frequency cells with CCA and
perform SS-RSRP and SS-RSRQ measurements of the identified
intra-frequency cells without an explicit intra-frequency neighbour list
containing physical layer cell identities.

The UE shall be able to evaluate whether a newly detectable
intra-frequency cell meets the reselection criteria defined in TS38.304
within T~detect,NR\_Intra\_CCA~ when that T~reselection~= 0 . An intra
frequency cell is considered to be detectable according to the
conditions defined in Annex B.2.8 for a corresponding Band.

The UE shall measure SS-RSRP and SS-RSRQ at least every
T~measure,NR\_Intra\_CCA~ (see table 4.2A.2.3-1) for intra-frequency
cells that are identified and measured according to the measurement
rules. **For a cell that is already identified, after 2 unsuccessful
measurement attempts due to exceeding the maximum number of SMTC
occasions not available at the UE, the UE shall detect cells on any of
the configured serving- and/or non-serving carriers.**

The UE shall filter SS-RSRP and SS-RSRQ measurements of each measured
intra-frequency cell using at least 2 measurements. Within the set of
measurements used for the filtering, at least two measurements shall be
spaced by at least T~measure,NR\_Intra\_CCA~/2.

The UE shall not consider a NR neighbour cell in cell reselection, if it
is indicated as not allowed in the measurement control system
information of the serving cell.

For an intra-frequency cell that has been already detected, but that has
not been reselected to, the filtering shall be such that the UE shall be
capable of evaluating that the intra-frequency cell has met reselection
criterion defined \[1\] within T~evaluate,NR\_Intra\_CCA~ when
T~reselection~ = 0 as specified in table 4.2A.2.3-1 provided that:

when *rangeToBestCell* is not configured:

\- the cell is at least 3dB better ranked in FR1.

when *rangeToBestCell* is configured:

\- the cell has the highest number of beams above the threshold
*absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation* among all detected cells whose
cell-ranking criterion R value \[1\] is within *rangeToBestCell* of the
cell-ranking criterion R value of the highest ranked cell.

\- if there are multiple such cells, the cell has the highest rank among
them.

\- the cell is at least 3dB better ranked in FR1 if the current serving
cell is among them.

When evaluating cells for reselection, the SSB side conditions apply to
both serving and non-serving intra-frequency cells.

If T~reselection~ timer has a non-zero value and the intra-frequency
cell is satisfied with the reselection criteria, which are defined in
TS38.304 \[1\], the UE shall evaluate this intra-frequency cell for the
T~reselection~ time. If this cell remains satisfied with the reselection
criteria within this duration, then the UE shall reselect that cell.

Table 4.2A.2.3-1: T~detect,NR\_Intra\_CCA,~ T~measure,NR\_Intra\_CCA~
and T~evaluate,NR\_Intra\_CCA~

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| DRX cycle      | T~detect,N     | T~measure,N    | T~evaluate,N   |
| length \[s\]   | R\_Intra\_CCA~ | R\_Intra\_CCA~ | R\_Intra\_CCA~ |
|                | \[s\] (number  | \[s\] (number  |                |
|                | of DRX cycles) | of DRX cycles) | \[s\] (number  |
|                |                |                | of DRX cycles) |
+================+================+================+================+
| 0.32           | 0.3            | 0.32x(4+M~m~)  | 0.32x(16+M~e~) |
|                | 2x(36+M~d~)xM2 | xM2            | x M2           |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | {(\[           | {(\            | {(16+M~e~)xM2} |
|                | 36\]+M~d~)xM2} | [4\]+M~m~)xM2} |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 0.64           | 0.64x(28+M~d~) | 0.64x(2+ M~m~) | 0.64x(8+ M~e~) |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | {28+M~d~}      | {2+ M~m~}      | {8+ M~e~}      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 1.28           | 1.28x(25+      | 1.28x(1+ M~m~) | 1.28x(5+ M~e~) |
|                | M~d~)          |                |                |
|                |                | {1+ M~m~}      | {5+ M~e~}      |
|                | {25+ M~d~}     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 2.56           | 2.56x(23+      | 2.56x(1+ M~m~) | 2.56x(3+ M~e~) |
|                | M~d~)          |                |                |
|                |                | {1+ M~m~}      | {3+ M~e~}      |
|                | {23+ M~d~}     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Note 1: M2 =   |                |                |                |
| 1.5 if SMTC    |                |                |                |
| periodicity of |                |                |                |
| measured       |                |                |                |
| i              |                |                |                |
| ntra-frequency |                |                |                |
| cell \> 20 ms; |                |                |                |
| otherwise      |                |                |                |
| M2=1.          |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| Note 2: M~d~,  |                |                |                |
| M~m~, M~e~ are |                |                |                |
| the number of  |                |                |                |
| DRX cycles     |                |                |                |
| each with at   |                |                |                |
| least one SMTC |                |                |                |
| occasion not   |                |                |                |
| available      |                |                |                |
| during the     |                |                |                |
| T~detect,NR    |                |                |                |
| \_Intra\_CCA~, |                |                |                |
| T~measure,N    |                |                |                |
| R\_Intra\_CCA~ |                |                |                |
| and            |                |                |                |
| T~evaluate,NR  |                |                |                |
| \_Intra\_CCA~, |                |                |                |
| and M~m~ ≤     |                |                |                |
| M~m,max~, Md ≤ |                |                |                |
| M~d,max~ and   |                |                |                |
| M~e~ ≤         |                |                |                |
|  M~e,max~      |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| Note 3:        |                |                |                |
| M~m,max~ = 16  |                |                |                |
| for DRX cycle  |                |                |                |
| length =       |                |                |                |
| 0.32s;         |                |                |                |
| M~m,max~ = 8   |                |                |                |
| for DRX cycle  |                |                |                |
| length =       |                |                |                |
| 0.64s;         |                |                |                |
| M~m,max~ = 4   |                |                |                |
| for DRX cycle  |                |                |                |
| length =       |                |                |                |
| 1.28s;         |                |                |                |
| M~m,max~ = 4   |                |                |                |
| for DRX cycle  |                |                |                |
| length = 2.56  |                |                |                |
| s.             |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| Note 4:        |                |                |                |
| M~d,max        |                |                |                |
| ~=4\*M~m,max~, |                |                |                |
| M~e,max        |                |                |                |
| ~=2\*M~m,max~. |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

The UE shall restart the measurements upon exceeding M~m,max~, M~d.max~,
or M~e,max~.

#### 4.2A.2.4 Measurements of inter-frequency NR cells when subject to CCA on the target cell

The UE shall be able to identify new inter-frequency cells and perform
SS-RSRP or SS-RSRQ measurements of identified inter-frequency cells if
carrier frequency information is provided by the serving cell, even if
no explicit neighbour list with physical layer cell identities is
provided.

If Srxlev \> S~nonIntraSearchP~ and Squal \> S~nonIntraSearchQ~ then the
UE shall search for inter-frequency layers of higher priority at least
every T~higher\_priority\_search~ where T~higher\_priority\_search~ is
described in clause 4.2A.2.7.

If Srxlev ≤ S~nonIntraSearchP~ or Squal ≤ S~nonIntraSearchQ~ then the UE
shall search for and measure inter-frequency layers of higher, equal or
lower priority in preparation for possible reselection. In this
scenario, the minimum rate at which the UE is required to search for and
measure higher priority layers shall be the same as that defined below
in this clause.

The UE shall be able to evaluate whether a newly detectable
inter-frequency cell meets the reselection criteria defined in TS38.304
within K~carrier~ \* T~detect,NR\_Inter~ + K~carrier\_CCA~ \*
T~detect,NR\_Inter\_CCA~ if at least carrier frequency information is
provided for inter-frequency neighbour cells by the serving cells when
T~reselection~ = 0 provided that the reselection criteria is met by a
margin of at least 5 dB in FR1 for reselections based on ranking or 6dB
in FR1 for SS-RSRP reselections based on absolute priorities or 4dB in
FR1 for SS-RSRQ reselections based on absolute priorities. The parameter
K~carrier~ is the number of NR inter-frequency carriers on licensed band
and K~carrier\_CCA~ is the number of NR inter-frequency carriers on
unlicensed band indicated by the serving cell. An inter-frequency cell
is considered to be detectable according to the conditions defined in
Annex B.2.9 for a corresponding Band.

When higher priority cells are found by the higher priority search, they
shall be measured at least every T~measure,NR\_Inter\_CCA~. If after
detecting a cell in a higher priority search, it is determined that
reselection has not occurred then the UE is not required to continuously
measure the detected cell to evaluate the ongoing possibility of
reselection. However, the minimum measurement filtering requirements
specified later in this clause shall still be met by the UE before it
makes any determination that it may stop measuring the cell. If the UE
detects on a NR carrier a cell whose physical identity is indicated as
not allowed for that carrier in the measurement control system
information of the serving cell, the UE is not required to perform
measurements on that cell.

The UE shall measure SS-RSRP or SS-RSRQ at least every K~carrier~ \*
T~measure,NR\_Inter~ + K~carrier\_CCA~ \* T~measure,NR\_Inter\_CCA~ for
identified lower or equal priority inter-frequency cells. If the UE
detects on a NR carrier a cell whose physical identity is indicated as
not allowed for that carrier in the measurement control system
information of the serving cell, the UE is not required to perform
measurements on that cell.

**For a cell that is already identified, after *2* unsuccessful
measurement attempts due to exceeding the maximum number of SMTC
occasions not available at the UE, the UE shall detect cells on any of
the configured serving- and/or non-serving carriers.**

The UE shall filter SS-RSRP or SS-RSRQ measurements of each measured
higher, lower and equal priority inter-frequency cell using at least 2
measurements. Within the set of measurements used for the filtering, at
least two measurements shall be spaced by at least
T~measure,NR\_Inter\_CCA~/2.

The UE shall not consider a NR neighbour cell in cell reselection, if it
is indicated as not allowed in the measurement control system
information of the serving cell.

For an inter-frequency cell that has been already detected, but that has
not been reselected to, the filtering shall be such that the UE shall be
capable of evaluating that the inter-frequency cell has met reselection
criterion defined TS 38.304 within K~carrier~ \* T~evaluate,NR\_Inter~ +
K~carrier\_CCA~ \* T~evaluate,NR\_Inter\_CCA~ when T~reselection~ = 0 as
specified in table 4.2A.2.4-1 provided that the reselection criteria is
met by

\- the condition when performing equal priority reselection and

when *rangeToBestCell* is not configured:

\- the cell is at least 5dB better ranked in FR1 or.

when *rangeToBestCell* is configured:

\- the cell has the highest number of beams above the threshold
*absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation* among all detected cells whose
cell-ranking criterion R value \[1\] is within *rangeToBestCell* of the
cell-ranking criterion R value of the highest ranked cell.

\- if there are multiple such cells, the cell has the highest rank among
them

\- the cell is at least 5dB better ranked in FR1 if the current serving
cell is among them. or

\- 6dB in FR1 for SS-RSRP reselections based on absolute priorities or

\- 4dB in FR1 for SS-RSRQ reselections based on absolute priorities.

When evaluating cells for reselection, the SSB side conditions apply to
both serving and inter-frequency cells.

If T~reselection~ timer has a non zero value and the inter-frequency
cell is satisfied with the reselection criteria, the UE shall evaluate
this inter-frequency cell for the T~reselection~ time. If this cell
remains satisfied with the reselection criteria within this duration,
then the UE shall reselect that cell.

The UE is not expected to meet the measurement requirements for an
inter-frequency carrier under DRX cycle=320 ms defined in Table
4.2A.2.4-1 under the following conditions:

\- T~SMTC\_intra~ = T~SMTC\_inter~ = 160 ms; where T~SMTC\_intra~ and
T~SMTC\_inter~ are periodicities of the SMTC occasions configured for
the intra-frequency carrier and the inter-frequency carrier
respectively, and

\- SMTC occasions configured for the inter-frequency carrier occur up to
1 ms before the start or up to 1 ms after the end of the SMTC occasions
configured for the intra-frequency carrier, and

\- SMTC occasions configured for the intra-frequency carrier and for the
inter-frequency carrier occur up to 1 ms before the start or up to 1 ms
after the end of the paging occasion \[1\].

Table 4.2A.2.4-1: T~detect,NR\_Inter\_CCA,~ T~measure,NR\_Inter\_CCA~
and T~evaluate,NR\_Inter\_CCA~

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| DRX cycle      | T~detect,N     | T~measure,N    | T~evaluate,N   |
| length \[s\]   | R\_Inter\_CCA~ | R\_Inter\_CCA~ | R\_Inter\_CCA~ |
|                | \[s\] (number  | \[s\] (number  |                |
|                | of DRX cycles) | of DRX cycles) | \[s\] (number  |
|                |                |                | of DRX cycles) |
+================+================+================+================+
| 0.32           | 0.3            | 0.32x(4+M~m~)  | 0.32x(16+M~e~) |
|                | 2x(36+M~d~)xM2 | xM2            | x M2           |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | {(36+          | {(4+ M~m~)xM2} | {(16+          |
|                | M~d~)xM2}      |                | M~e~)xM2}      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 0.64           | 0.64x(28+      | 0.64x(2+ M~m~) | 0.64x(8+ M~e~) |
|                | M~d~)          |                |                |
|                |                | {2+ M~m~ }     | {8+ M~e~ }     |
|                | {28+ M~d~ }    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 1.28           | 1.28x(25+      | 1.28x(1+ M~m~) | 1.28x(5+ M~e~) |
|                | M~d~)          |                |                |
|                |                | {1+ M~m~ }     | {5+ M~e~ }     |
|                | {25+ M~d~ }    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 2.56           | 2.56x(23+      | 2.56x(1+ M~m~) | 2.56x(3+ M~e~) |
|                | M~d~)          |                |                |
|                |                | {1+ M~m~ }     | {3+ M~e~ }     |
|                | {23+ M~d~ }    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Note 1: M2 =   |                |                |                |
| 1.5 if SMTC    |                |                |                |
| periodicity of |                |                |                |
| measured       |                |                |                |
| i              |                |                |                |
| ntra-frequency |                |                |                |
| cell \> 20 ms; |                |                |                |
| otherwise      |                |                |                |
| M2=1.          |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| Note 2: M~d~,  |                |                |                |
| M~m~, M~e~ are |                |                |                |
| the number of  |                |                |                |
| DRX cycles     |                |                |                |
| with at least  |                |                |                |
| one SMTC where |                |                |                |
| there are no   |                |                |                |
| SSBs available |                |                |                |
| at the UE      |                |                |                |
| during         |                |                |                |
| T~detect,NR    |                |                |                |
| \_Inter\_CCA~, |                |                |                |
| T~measure,N    |                |                |                |
| R\_Inter\_CCA~ |                |                |                |
| and            |                |                |                |
| T~evaluate,NR  |                |                |                |
| \_Inter\_CCA~, |                |                |                |
| and M~m~ ≤     |                |                |                |
| M~m,max~, M~d~ |                |                |                |
| ≤ M~d,max~ and |                |                |                |
| M~e~ ≤         |                |                |                |
|  M~e,max~      |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| Note 3:        |                |                |                |
| M~m,max~ = 16  |                |                |                |
| for DRX cycle  |                |                |                |
| length =       |                |                |                |
| 0.32s;         |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| M~m,max~ = 8   |                |                |                |
| for DRX cycle  |                |                |                |
| length =       |                |                |                |
| 0.64s;         |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| M~m,max~ = 4   |                |                |                |
| for DRX cycle  |                |                |                |
| length =       |                |                |                |
| 1.28s;         |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| M~m,max~ = 4   |                |                |                |
| for DRX cycle  |                |                |                |
| length =       |                |                |                |
| 2.56s.         |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| Note 4:        |                |                |                |
| M~d,max~ = 4   |                |                |                |
| \* M~m,max~,   |                |                |                |
| Me,max=2 \*    |                |                |                |
| M~m,max~.      |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

The UE shall restart the measurements upon exceeding M~m,max~, M~d.max~,
or M~e,max~.

#### 4.2A.2.5 Measurements of inter-RAT E-UTRAN cells when subject to CCA on the serving cell

The requirements in clause 4.2.2.5 shall apply.

#### 4.2A.2.6 Maximum interruption in paging reception when subject to CCA on the target cell

UE shall perform the cell re-selection with minimum interruption in
monitoring downlink channels for paging reception.

At intra-frequency and inter-frequency cell re-selection, the UE shall
monitor the downlink of serving cell for paging reception until the UE
is capable to start monitoring downlink channels of the target
intra-frequency and inter-frequency cell for paging reception. The
interruption time shall not exceed T~SI,CCA~ +
2\*T~target\_cell\_SMTC\_period~.

At inter-RAT cell re-selection, the UE shall monitor the downlink of
serving cell for paging reception until the UE is capable to start
monitoring downlink channels for paging reception of the target
inter-RAT cell. For NR to E-UTRAN cell re-selection the interruption
time shall not exceed T~SI-EUTRA~ + 55 ms.

T~SI\_CCA~ is the time required for receiving all the relevant system
information data according to the reception procedure and the RRC
procedure delay of system information blocks defined in TS 38.331 \[2\]
for an NR cell.

T~SI-EUTRA~ is the time required for receiving all the relevant system
information data according to the reception procedure and the RRC
procedure delay of system information blocks defined in TS 36.331 \[16\]
for an E-UTRAN cell.

These requirements assume sufficient radio conditions, so that decoding
of system information can be made without errors and does not take into
account cell re-selection failure.

#### 4.2A.2.7 General requirements

The requirements in clause 4.2.2.7 shall apply.

4.3 Minimization of Drive Tests (MDT)
-------------------------------------

### 4.3.1 Introduction

UE supporting minimisation of drive tests in RRC\_IDLE shall be capable
of:

\- logging measurements in RRC\_IDLE, reporting the logged measurements
and meeting requirements in clause 4.3;

\- logging of RRC connection establishment failure, reporting the logged
failure and meeting requirements in clause 4.3;

\- logging of radio link failure and handover failure, reporting the
logged failure and meeting requirements in clause 4.3.

The logged MDT requirements consist of measurement requirements as
specified in clause 4.3.2 and relative time stamp accuracy requirements
as specified in clause 4.3.3. Both sets of requirements are applicable
for intra-frequency, inter-frequency and inter-RAT cases in RRC\_IDLE
state. The MDT procedures are described in TS 37.320 \[31\].

For RRC connection establishment failure logging and reporting, the MDT
requirements consist of requirements for measurements performed and
logged in RRC\_IDLE state specified in clause 4.3.2 and relative time
stamp accuracy requirement for RRC connection establishment failure log
reporting as specified in clause 4.3.4.

### 4.3.2 Measurement Requirements

The requirements specified in this clause apply for the following
measurements performed and logged by the UE for MDT in RRC\_IDLE:

\- inter-RAT E-UTRA FDD and TDD RSRP,

\- inter-RAT E-UTRA FDD and TDD RSRQ,

\- SS-RSRP per cell,

\- SS-RSRQ per cell,

\- SS-RSRP per SSB index of the serving cell,

\- SS-RSRQ per SSB index of the serving cell,

\- best SSB index of the serving cell,

\- the number of SSBs with different SSB index which are above the
threshold *absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation* for all detected cells whose
cell-ranking criterion R value is within *rangeToBestCell* of the
cell-ranking criterion R value of the highest ranked cell.

The requirements apply for the measurements included in logged MDT
reports and RRC connection establishment failure reports.

The measurement values that are used to meet

\- serving cell and reselection requirements as specified in clauses
4.2.2.2−4.2.2.7

shall also apply to values logged for MDT measurements in RRC\_IDLE
state.

### 4.3.3 Requirements for Relative Time Stamp Accuracy

The relative time stamp for a logged measurement is defined as the time
from the moment the MDT configuration was received at the UE until the
measurement was logged, see TS 38.331 \[2\].

The accuracy of the relative time stamping is such that the drift of the
time stamping shall be not more than ± 2 seconds per hour.

### 4.3.4 Requirements for Relative Time Stamp Accuracy for RRC Connection Establishment Failure Log Reporting

Relative time stamp for RRC connection establishment failure log
reporting is defined as the time elapsed from the last RRC connection
establishment failure to the time when the log is included in the report
TS 38.331 \[2\]. The UE shall report the RRC connection establishment
failure log, while meeting the accuracy requirement specified in this
clause.

The accuracy of the relative time stamping for RRC connection
establishment failure log reporting is such that the drift of the time
stamping shall not be larger than ± 0.72 seconds per hour and ± 10
seconds over 48 hours. The relative time stamp accuracy requirements
shall apply provided that:

\- no power off or detach occurs after the RRC connection establishment
failure had been detected and until the log is time-stamped.

### 4.3.5 Requirements for Relative Time Stamp Accuracy for Radio Link Failure and Handover Failure Log Reporting

The UE shall report the radio link and handover failure log, while
meeting the accuracy requirements specified in this clause.

Relative time stamp accuracy requirements for *timeSinceFailure*
reported for MDT in a radio link failure or handover failure log are
specified in this clause. *timeSinceFailure* determines the time elapsed
from the last radio link failure or handover failure in NR to the time
when the log is included in the report TS 38.331 \[2\].

The accuracy of the relative time stamping for *timeSinceFailure* is
such that the drift of the time stamping shall not be larger than ± 0.72
seconds per hour and ± 10 seconds over 48 hours. These relative time
stamp accuracy requirements shall apply provided that:

\- no power off or detach occurs after the RLF or handover failure had
been detected and until the log is time-stamped.

4.4 Idle Mode CA/DC Measurements
--------------------------------

### 4.4.1 Introduction

A UE supporting *idleInactiveNR-MeasReport-r16* or
*idleInactiveEUTRA-MeasReport-r16* shall perform the idle mode
measurement on the inter-frequency CA and DC candidate frequencies/cells
and E-UTRAN inter-RAT DC candidate frequencies/cells indicated by higher
layers and meet the requirement specified in this clause. The UE shall
perform idle mode measurements provided that the serving cell support
early measurement and is within the validity area. The idle mode
measurement requirements apply to a configured carrier frequency and the
serving cell are among the supported band combination of the UE.

### 4.4.2 Measurement Requirements

For a UE which supports *idleInactiveNR-MeasReport-r16* or
*idleInactiveEUTRA-MeasReport-r16* the UE shall support the idle mode CA
measurements on the serving cell, and carriers configured for idle mode
CA/DC measurement reporting provided T331 has not expired, the serving
cell is supporting idle mode CA/DC measurement reporting and the serving
cell is in the validity area.

#### 4.4.2.1 Detected cell requirement during state transition and Idle mode

This subclause defines the requirements for the detected cell status for
the idle mode CA/DC measurement when UE transitions from RRC Connected
mode to Idle mode and after UE has entered Idle mode. The requirements
are applicable to an NE-DC and NR carrier aggregation capable UE which
has been configured with one or more of following, one or more SCells,
one E-UTRAN PSCell or one or more downlink E-UTRAN SCells during the
Connected mode and which supports *idleInactiveNR-MeasReport-r16* or
*idleInactiveEUTRA-MeasReport-r16.* The requirements are applicable for
SCell(s) and E-UTRAN FDD and TDD PSCell and SCells.

Upon releasing the connection and if the UE has been configured with
idle mode CA measurement reporting, following requirements apply
concerning the detected cells in Connected mode upon state transitioning
to Idle mode and during Idle mode:

\- A cell which is detected cell in Connected mode prior to connection
release, shall remain detected after UE has entered Idle mode and during
Idle mode, provided that the following conditions are met:

\- The UE has been provided with a list of cells and/or carrier
frequencies for early measurement reporting by dedicated RRC signaling
and

\- The detected cell is among the list of cells or on a carrier
frequency provided for early measurement reporting, and

\- The UE is provided with a valid timer T331 by dedicated RRC
signaling, and

\- The detected cell and SSBs remains detectable until UE reconnect to
the network and transmits the early measurement report, and

\- The carrier frequency of the detected cell and the carrier frequency
of the serving cell are among the supported band combination of the UE.

An inter-RAT E-UTRAN cell is considered detectable according to RSRP,
RSRP Ês/Iot, SCH\_RP and SCH Ês/Iot defined in Annex B.1.1 and Annex
B.1.2 in \[15\] for a corresponding Band. An inter-frequency cell is
considered detectable according to the conditions in Annex B.1.2 and
B.1.3 for a corresponding band. An SSB of an inter-frequency cell is
considered detectable according to SSB\_RP and SSB Ês/Iot defined in
Annex B.1.2 and B.1.3 for a corresponding Band.

#### 4.4.2.2 Measurements of inter-frequency CA/DC candidate cells

While T331 is running, the UE shall perform measurement on the
configured inter-frequency carriers for idle mode CA/DC measurement
reporting according to the UE measurement capability.

A UE which supports *idleInactiveNR-MeasReport-r16* shall support idle
mode CA/DC measurements of:

\- at least 7 inter-frequency carriers which are also configured for
inter-frequency mobility measurements, and

\- at least 7 inter-frequency carriers which are not configured for
inter-frequency mobility measurements.

The UE shall be capable of monitoring a total of at least 7
inter-frequency carriers for idle mode CA/DC measurements comprising of
carriers configured for inter-frequency mobility measurements and
carriers not configured for inter-frequency mobility measurements.

For inter-frequency carriers configured for idle mode CA/DC
measurements, if Srxlev ≤ S~nonIntraSearchP~ or Squal ≤
S~nonIntraSearchQ~ the inter-frequency measurement requirements in
clause 4.2.2.4 shall apply, where UE shall search for and measure
inter-frequency layers configured for idle mode CA/DC measurements in
preparation for possible reporting. If Srxlev \> S~nonIntraSearchP~ and
Squal \> S~nonIntraSearchQ~ the UE shall search for inter-frequency
layers configured for idle mode CA/DC measurements at least every
T~higher\_priority\_search~ where T~higher\_priority\_search~ is
described in clause 4.2.2.7, where UE shall search for and measure
inter-frequency layers configured for idle mode CA/DC measurements in
preparation for possible reporting.

For UE supporting *idleInactiveNR-MeasBeamReport-r16*, if the UE is
configured with *beamMeasConfigIdle-r16* on one or more carrier for idle
mode CA/DC measurement, the UE, on each carrier, shall be able to:

\- detect a newly detectable inter-frequency NR cell and perform
RSRP/RSRQ measurement in preparation for reporting, and

\- acquire the SSB index for a newly detectable inter-frequency NR cell
if *beamMeasConfigIdle-r16* if configured on this carrier and perform
RSRP/RSRQ measurement in preparation for reporting,

within the requirements defined in clause 4.2.2.4 plus
k\*T~SSB\_index,NR~, where k is the number of carriers configured for
idle mode CA measurement with *beamMeasConfigIdle-r16*, and
T~SSB\_index,NR~ is the additional time period used to acquire the index
of the SSB being measured as defined in table 4.4.2.2-1.

Table 4.4.2.2-1: T~SSB\_index,NR\_Inter~

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| DRX cycle      | Scaling Factor | T~SSB\_in      |                |
| length \[s\]   | (N1)           | dex,NR\_Inter~ |                |
|                |                | \[s\] (number  |                |
|                |                | of DRX cycles) |                |
+================+================+================+================+
|                | FR1            | FR2^Note1^     |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 0.32           | 1              | 8              | N2 x 1.28 x N1 |
|                |                |                | x 1.5 (N2 x 4  |
|                |                |                | x N1 x 1.5)    |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 0.64           |                | 5              | N2 x 1.28 x N1 |
|                |                |                | (N2 x 2 x N1)  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 1.28           |                | 4              | N2 x 1.28 x N1 |
|                |                |                | (N2 x 1 x N1)  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 2.56           |                | 3              | N2 x 2.56 x N1 |
|                |                |                | (N2 x 1 x N1)  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Note 1:        |                |                |                |
| Applies for UE |                |                |                |
| supporting     |                |                |                |
| power class    |                |                |                |
| 2&3&4. For UE  |                |                |                |
| supporting     |                |                |                |
| power class 1, |                |                |                |
| N1 = 8 for all |                |                |                |
| DRX cycle      |                |                |                |
| length.        |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 2: N2 = 3 |                |                |                |
| if the NR      |                |                |                |
| i              |                |                |                |
| nter-frequency |                |                |                |
| carrier for    |                |                |                |
| idle mode      |                |                |                |
| CA/DC          |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| reporting is   |                |                |                |
| in FR1, and N2 |                |                |                |
| = 5 if the NR  |                |                |                |
| i              |                |                |                |
| nter-frequency |                |                |                |
| carrier for    |                |                |                |
| idle mode      |                |                |                |
| CA/DC          |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| reporting is   |                |                |                |
| in FR2.        |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

In the absence or expiration of T331, it is up to UE implementation to
perform the idle mode CA/DC measurement.

For inter-frequency carriers configured for idle mode CA/DC
measurements, the UE shall be capable of performing SS-RSRP and SS-RSRQ
measurements of the carriers, and the UE physical layer shall be capable
of reporting SS-RSRP and SS-RSRQ measurements of the carriers configured
for idle mode CA/DC measurements to higher layers, with measurement
accuracy as specified in clauses 10.1.4B and 10.1.5B and 10.1.9B and
10.1.10B, respectively.

The UE shall be able to report idle mode CA/DC measurements when idle
mode CA/DC measurement reporting is requested by the network.

#### 4.4.2.3 Measurements on serving cell

The UE shall measure the RSRP and RSRQ level of the serving cell and
evaluate the cell selection criterion S defined in clause 4.2.2.2 and
the UE physical layer shall be capable of reporting RSRP and RSRQ
measurements of the serving cell to higher layers, with measurement
accuracy as specified in 10.1.2B, 10.1.3B, 10.1.7B and 10.1.8B.

#### 4.4.2.4 Measurements of E-UTRAN inter-RAT DC candidate cells

While T331 is running, the UE shall perform measurement on the
configured inter-RAT carriers for idle mode CA/DC measurement reporting
according to the UE measurement capability.

A UE which supports *idleInactiveEUTRA-MeasReport-r16* shall support
idle mode DC measurements of:

\- at least 7 E-UTRAN inter-RAT carriers which are also configured for
E-UTRAN inter-RAT mobility measurements, and

\- at least 1 E-UTRAN inter-RAT carrier which is not configured for
E-UTRAN inter-RAT mobility measurements.

The UE shall be capable of monitoring a total of at least 7 inter-RAT
carriers for idle mode CA/DC measurements comprising of carriers
configured for inter-RAT mobility measurements and carriers not
configured for inter-RAT mobility measurements.

For inter-RAT carriers configured for idle mode CA/DC measurements, if
Srxlev ≤ S~nonIntraSearchP~ or Squal ≤ S~nonIntraSearchQ~ the inter-RAT
measurement requirements in clause 4.2.2.5 shall apply, where UE shall
search for and measure inter-RAT layers configured for idle mode CA/DC
measurements in preparation for possible reporting. If Srxlev \>
S~nonIntraSearchP~ and Squal \> S~nonIntraSearchQ~ the UE shall search
for inter-RAT layers configured for idle mode CA/DC measurements at
least every T~higher\_priority\_search~ where
T~higher\_priority\_search~ is described in clause 4.2.2, where UE shall
search for and measure inter-RAT layers configured for idle mode CA/DC
measurements in preparation for possible reporting.

For overlapping inter-RAT carriers configured for idle mode CA/DC
measurements, the UE shall be capable of performing RSRP and RSRQ
measurements of the carriers, and the UE physical layer shall be capable
of reporting RSRP and RSRQ measurements of the carriers configured for
idle mode CA/DC measurements to higher layers, with measurement accuracy
as specified in clauses in 9.1.3B.3 and 9.1.6B.2 \[15\], respectively.

The UE shall be able to report idle mode CA measurements when idle mode
CA measurement reporting is requested by the network.

5 SA: RRC\_INACTIVE state mobility
==================================

5.1 Cell Re-selection
---------------------

### 5.1.1 Introduction

The cell reselection procedure allows the UE to select a more suitable
cell and camp on it.

When the UE is in *Camped Normally* state on a cell, the UE shall
attempt to detect, synchronise, and monitor intra-frequency,
inter-frequency and inter-RAT cells indicated by the serving cell. For
intra-frequency and inter-frequency cells the serving cell may not
provide explicit neighbour list but carrier frequency information and
bandwidth information only. UE measurement activity is also controlled
by measurement rules defined in TS38.304 \[1\], allowing the UE to limit
its measurement activity.

### 5.1.2 Requirements

#### 5.1.2.1 UE measurement capability

The requirements in clause 4.2.2.1 shall apply.

#### 5.1.2.2 Measurement and evaluation of serving cell

The requirements in clause 4.2.2.2 shall apply.

#### 5.1.2.3 Measurements of intra-frequency NR cells

The requirements in clause 4.2.2.3 shall apply. The requirements in
clause 4.2.2.9 apply for UE configured with relaxed measurement
criterion.

#### 5.1.2.4 Measurements of inter-frequency NR cells

The requirements in clause 4.2.2.4 shall apply regardless of whether the
serving cell is subject to CCA or not. The requirements in clause
4.2.2.10 shall apply regardless of whether the serving cell is subject
to CCA or not for UE configured with relaxed measurement criterion.

#### 5.1.2.5 Measurements of inter-RAT E-UTRAN cells

The requirements in clause 4.2.2.5 shall apply. The requirements in
clause 4.2.2.11 shall apply for UE configured with relaxed measurement
criterion.

#### 5.1.2.6 Maximum interruption in paging reception

The requirements in clause 4.2.2.6 shall apply.

#### 5.1.2.7 General requirements

The requirements in clause 4.2.2.7 shall apply.

5.1A Cell Re-selection with CCA
-------------------------------

### 5.1A.1 Introduction

The cell reselection procedure allows the UE to select a more suitable
cell and camp on it. The requirements in subclauses 5.1A.2.3, 5.1A.2.4,
and 5.1A.2.6 apply when at least the target cell is on a carrier
frequency with CCA, and the requirements in subclauses 5.1A.2.2 and
5.1A.2.5 apply when at least the camping cell is on a carrier frequency
with CCA.

When the UE is in *Camped Normally* state on a cell, the UE shall
attempt to detect, synchronise, and monitor intra-frequency,
inter-frequency and inter-RAT cells indicated by the serving cell. For
intra-frequency and inter-frequency cells the serving cell may not
provide explicit neighbour list but carrier frequency information and
bandwidth information only. UE measurement activity is also controlled
by measurement rules defined in TS38.304, allowing the UE to limit its
measurement activity.

### 5.1A.2 Requirements

#### 5.1A.2.1 UE measurement capability

The requirements in clause 4.2A.2.1 shall apply.

#### 5.1A.2.2 Measurement and evaluation when CCA is used on the serving cell

The requirements in clause 4.2A.2.2 shall apply.

#### 5.1A.2.3 Measurements of intra-frequency NR cells when CCA is used on the serving cell and target cell

The requirements in clause 4.2A.2.3 shall apply.

#### 5.1A.2.4 Measurements of inter-frequency NR cells when CCA is used on the target cell

The requirements in clause 4.2A.2.4 shall apply.

#### 5.1A.2.5 Measurements of inter-RAT E-UTRAN cells when CCA is used on the serving cell

The requirements in clause 4.2.2.5 shall apply.

#### 5.1A.2.6 Maximum interruption in paging reception when CCA is used on the target cell

The requirements in clause 4.2A.2.6 shall apply.

#### 5.1A.2.7 General requirements

The requirements in clause 4.2.2.7 shall apply.

5.2 Void
--------

5.3 Minimization of Drive Tests (MDT)
-------------------------------------

### 5.3.1 Introduction

UE supporting minimisation of drive tests in RRC\_INACTIVE shall be
capable of:

\- logging measurements in RRC\_INACTIVE, reporting the logged
measurements and meeting requirements in clause 5.3.1;

\- logging of RRC connection establishment failure, reporting the logged
failure and meeting requirements in clause 5.3.1;

\- logging of radio link failure and handover failure, reporting the
logged failure and meeting requirements in clause 5.3.1.

The logged MDT requirements consist of measurement requirements as
specified in clause 5.3.2 and relative time stamp accuracy requirements
as specified in clause 5.3.3. Both sets of requirements are applicable
for intra-frequency, inter-frequency and inter-RAT cases in
RRC\_INACTIVE state. The MDT procedures are described in TS 37.320
\[31\].

For RRC connection establishment failure logging and reporting, the MDT
requirements consist of requirements for measurements performed and
logged in RRC\_INACTIVE state specified in clause 5.3.2 and relative
time stamp accuracy requirement for RRC connection establishment failure
log reporting as specified in clause 5.3.4.

### 5.3.2 Measurement Requirements

The measurements and measurement requirements applicable for MDT in
RRC\_INACTIVE are the same as specified for MDT in RRC\_IDLE in clause
4.3.2.

### 5.3.3 Requirements for Relative Time Stamp Accuracy

The requirements for relative time stamp accuracy applicable for MDT in
RRC\_INACTIVE are the same as specified for MDT in RRC\_IDLE in clause
4.3.3.

### 5.3.4 Requirements for Relative Time Stamp Accuracy for RRC Connection Establishment Failure Log Reporting

The requirements for relative time stamp accuracy for RRC connection
establishment failure applicable for MDT in RRC\_INACTIVE are the same
as specified for MDT in RRC\_IDLE in clause 4.3.4.

### 5.3.5 Requirements for Relative Time Stamp Accuracy for Radio Link Failure and Handover Failure Log Reporting

The requirements for relative time stamp accuracy for RRC link failure
and handover failure applicable for MDT in RRC\_INACTIVE are the same as
specified for MDT in RRC\_IDLE in clause 4.3.5.

### 5.3.6 Requirements for Relative Time Stamp Accuracy for RRC Resume Failure Log Reporting

The requirements for relative time stamp accuracy for RRC resume failure
applicable for MDT in RRC\_INACTIVE are the same as specified for MDT in
RRC\_IDLE in clause 4.3.4.

5.4 Idle Mode CA/DC Measurements
--------------------------------

### 5.4.1 Introduction

A UE supporting *IdleInactiveMeasurements-r16* or
*idleInactiveEUTRA-MeasReport-r16* shall perform the idle mode
measurement on the inter-frequency CA and DC candidate frequencies/cells
and E-UTRAN inter-RAT DC candidate frequencies/cells indicated by higher
layers and meet the requirement specified in this clause. The UE shall
perform idle mode measurements provided that the serving cell support
early measurement and is within the validity area. The idle mode
measurement requirements apply to a configured carrier frequency and the
serving cell are among the supported band combination of the UE.

### 5.4.2 Measurement Requirements

The requirements in clause 4.4.2 shall apply.

#### 5.4.2.1 Detected cell requirement during state transition and Idle mode

The requirements in clause 4.4.2.1 shall apply.

#### 5.4.2.2 Measurements of inter-frequency CA/DC candidate cells

The requirements in clause 4.4.2.2 shall apply.

#### 5.4.2.3 Measurements on serving cell

The requirements in clause 4.4.2.3 shall apply.

#### 5.4.2.4 Measurements on E-UTRAN inter-RAT DC candidate cells

The requirements in clause 4.4.2.4 shall apply.

6 RRC\_CONNECTED state mobility
===============================

6.1 Handover
------------

### 6.1.1 NR Handover

#### 6.1.1.1 Introduction

The purpose of NR handover is to change the NR PCell to another NR cell.
The requirements in this clause are applicable to SA NR, NE-DC and
NR-DC.

#### 6.1.1.2 NR FR1 - NR FR1 Handover

The requirements in this clause are applicable to both intra-frequency
and inter-frequency handovers from NR FR1 cell to NR FR1 cell, and to
inter-frequency handover from NR FR1 cell in a carrier frequency with
CCA to NR FR1 cell.

##### 6.1.1.2.1 Handover delay

When the UE receives a RRC message implying handover the UE shall be
ready to start the transmission of the new uplink PRACH channel within
D~handover~ msec from the end of the last TTI containing the RRC
command.

Where:

D~handover~ equals the applicable RRC procedure delay defined in clause
12 in TS 38.331 \[2\] plus the interruption time stated in
clause 6.1.1.2.2.

##### 6.1.1.2.2 Interruption time

The interruption time is the time between end of the last TTI containing
the RRC command on the old PDSCH and the time the UE starts transmission
of the new PRACH, excluding the RRC procedure delay.

When intra-frequency or inter-frequency handover is commanded, the
interruption time shall be less than T~interrupt~

T~interrupt~ = T~search~ + T~IU~ + T~processing~ + T~∆~ + T~margin~ ms

Where:

T~search~ is the time required to search the target cell when the target
cell is not already known when the handover command is received by the
UE. If the target cell is known, then T~search~ = 0 ms. If the target
cell is an unknown intra-frequency cell and the target cell Es/Iot≥-2
dB, then T~search~ = T~rs~ ms. If the target cell is an unknown
inter-frequency cell and the target cell Es/Iot≥-2 dB, then T~search~ =
3\* T~rs~ ms. Regardless of whether DRX is in use by the UE, T~search~
shall still be based on non-DRX target cell search times.

T~∆~ is time for fine time tracking and acquiring full timing
information of the target cell. T~∆~ = T~rs~ for both known and unknown
target cell.

T~processing~ is time for UE processing. T~processing~ can be up to
20ms.

T~margin~ is time for SSB post-processing. T~margin~ can be up to 2ms.

T~IU~ is the interruption uncertainty in acquiring the first available
PRACH occasion in the new cell. T~IU~ can be up to the summation of SSB
to PRACH occasion association period and 10 ms. SSB to PRACH occasion
associated period is defined in the table 8.1-1 of TS 38.213 \[3\].

T~rs~ is the SMTC periodicity of the target NR cell if the UE has been
provided with an SMTC configuration for the target cellin the handover
command, otherwise Trs is the SMTC configured in the measObjectNR having
the same SSB frequency and subcarrier spacing. If the measObjectNRs
having the same SSB frequency and subcarrier spacing configured by MN
and SN have different SMTC, Trs is the periodicity of one of the SMTC
which is up to UE implementation. If the UE is not provided SMTC
configuration or measurement object on this frequency, the requirement
in this clause is applied with T~rs~=5ms assuming the SSB transmission
periodicity is 5ms. There is no requirement if the SSB transmission
periodicity is not 5ms. If the UE has been provided with higher layer in
TS 38.331 \[2\] signaling of *smtc2* prior to the handover command,
T~rs~ follows *smtc1* or *smtc2* according to the physical cell ID of
the target cell.

In the interruption requirement a cell is known if it has been meeting
the relevant cell identification requirement during the last 5 seconds
otherwise it is unknown. Relevant cell identification requirements are
described in Clause 9.2.5 for intra-frequency handover and Clause 9.3.4
for inter-frequency handover.

#### 6.1.1.3 NR FR2- NR FR1 Handover

The requirements in this clause are applicable to inter-frequency
handovers from NR FR2 cell to NR FR1 cell.

##### 6.1.1.3.1 Handover delay

When the UE receives a RRC message implying handover the UE shall be
ready to start the transmission of the new uplink PRACH channel within
D~handover~ ms from the end of the last TTI containing the RRC command.

Where:

D~handover~ equals the applicable RRC procedure delay defined in
clause 12 in TS 38.331 \[2\] plus the interruption time stated in
clause 6.1.1.3.2.

##### 6.1.1.3.2 Interruption time

The interruption time is the time between the end of the last TTI
containing the RRC command on the old PDSCH and the time the UE starts
transmission of the new PRACH, excluding the RRC procedure delay.

When inter-frequency handover is commanded, the interruption time shall
be less than T~interrupt~

T~interrupt~ = T~search~ + T~IU~ + T~processing~ + T~∆~ + T~margin~ ms

Where:

T~search~ is the time required to search the target cell when the target
cell is not already known when the handover command is received by the
UE. If the target cell is known, then T~search~ = 0 ms. If the target
cell is an unknown inter-frequency cell and the target cell Es/Iot ≥ -2
dB, then T~search~ = 3\* T~rs~ ms. Regardless of whether DRX is in use
by the UE, T~search~ shall still be based on non-DRX target cell search
times.

T~∆~ is time for fine time tracking and acquiring full timing
information of the target cell. T~∆~ = T~rs~ for both known and unknown
target cell.

T~processing~ is time for UE processing. T~processing~ can be up to
40ms.

T~margin~ is time for SSB post-processing. T~margin~ can be up to 2ms.

T~IU~ is the interruption uncertainty in acquiring the first available
PRACH occasion in the new cell. T~IU~ can be up to the summation of SSB
to PRACH occasion association period and 10 ms. SSB to PRACH occasion
associated period is defined in the table 8.1-1 of TS 38.213 \[3\].

T~rs~ is the SMTC periodicity of the target NR cell if the UE has been
provided with an SMTC configuration for the target cell in the handover
command, otherwise T~rs~ is the SMTC configured in the measObjectNR
having the same SSB frequency and subcarrier spacing. If such
measObjectNRs configured by MN and SN have different SMTC, T~rs~ is the
periodicity of one of the SMTC which is up to UE implementation. If the
UE is not provided SMTC configuration or measurement object on this
frequency, the requirement in this clause is applied with T~rs~=5ms
assuming the SSB transmission periodicity is 5ms. There is no
requirement if the SSB transmission periodicity is not 5ms.

In the interruption requirement a cell is known if it has been meeting
the relevant cell identification requirement during the last 5 seconds
otherwise it is unknown. Relevant cell identification requirements are
described in Clause 9.2.5 for intra-frequency handover and Clause 9.3.4
for inter-frequency handover.

#### 6.1.1.4 NR FR2- NR FR2 Handover

The requirements in this clause are applicable to both intra-frequency
and inter-frequency handovers from NR FR2 cell to NR FR2 cell.

##### 6.1.1.4.1 Handover delay

When the UE receives a RRC message implying handover the UE shall be
ready to start the transmission of the new uplink PRACH channel within
D~handover~ ms from the end of the last TTI containing the RRC command.

Where:

D~handover~ equals the applicable RRC procedure delay defined in
clause 12 in TS 38.331 \[2\] plus the interruption time stated in
clause 6.1.1.4.2.

##### 6.1.1.4.2 Interruption time

The interruption time is the time between end of the last TTI containing
the RRC command on the old PDSCH and the time the UE starts transmission
of the new PRACH, excluding the RRC procedure delay.

When intra-frequency or inter-frequency handover is commanded, the
interruption time shall be less than T~interrupt~

T~interrupt~ = T~search~ + T~IU~ + T~processing~ + T~∆~ + T~margin~ ms

Where:

T~search~ is the time required to search the target cell when the
handover command is received by the UE. If the target cell is a known
cell, then T~search~ = 0 ms. If the target cell is an unknown
intra-frequency cell and the target cell Es/Iot≥-2 dB, then T~search~ =
8\* T~rs~ ms. If the target cell is an unknown inter-frequency cell and
the target cell Es/Iot≥-2 dB, then T~search~ = 8\*3\* T~rs~ ms.
Regardless of whether DRX is in use by the UE, T~search~ shall still be
based on non-DRX target cell search times.

T~processing~ is time for UE processing. T~processing~ can be up to
20ms.

T~margin~ is time for SSB post-processing. T~margin~ can be up to 2ms.

T~∆~ is time for fine time tracking and acquiring full timing
information of the target cell. T~∆~ = T~rs~ for both known and unknown
target cell.

T~IU~ is the interruption uncertainty in acquiring the first available
PRACH occasion in the new cell. T~IU~ can be up to the summation of SSB
to PRACH occasion association period and 10 ms. SSB to PRACH occasion
associated period is defined in the table 8.1-1 of TS 38.213 \[3\].

T~rs~ is the SMTC periodicity of the target NR cell if the UE has been
provided with an SMTC configuration for the target cell in the handover
command, otherwise Trs is the SMTC configured in the measObjectNR having
the same SSB frequency and subcarrier spacing. If such measObjectNRs
configured by MN and SN have different SMTC, Trs is the periodicity of
one of the SMTC which is up to UE implementation. If the UE is not
provided SMTC configuration or measurement object on this frequency, the
requirement in this clause is applied with T~rs~=5ms assuming the SSB
transmission periodicity is 5ms. There is no requirement if the SSB
transmission periodicity is not 5ms. If the UE has been provided with
higher layer in TS 38.331 \[2\] signaling of *smtc2* prior to the
handover command, T~rs~ follows *smtc1* or *smtc2* according to the
physical cell ID of the target cell.

In FR2, the target cell is known if it has been meeting the following
conditions:

\- During the last 5 seconds before the reception of the handover
command:

\- the UE has sent a valid measurement report for the target cell and

\- One of the SSBs measured from the NR target cell being configured
remains detectable according to the cell identification conditions
specified in clause 9.2 for intra-frequency cell and in clause 9.3 for
inter-frequency cell,

\- One of the SSBs measured from the target cell also remains detectable
during the handover delay according to the cell identification
conditions specified in clause 9.2 for intra-frequency cell and in
clause 9.3 for inter-frequency cell.

otherwise it is unknown.

#### 6.1.1.5 NR FR1- NR FR2 Handover

The requirements in this clause are applicable to inter-frequency
handovers from NR FR1 cell to NR FR2 cell.

##### 6.1.1.5.1 Handover delay

When the UE receives a RRC message implying handover the UE shall be
ready to start the transmission of the new uplink PRACH channel within
D~handover~ ms from the end of the last TTI containing the RRC command.

Where:

D~handover~ equals the applicable RRC procedure delay defined in
clause 12 in TS 38.331 \[2\] plus the interruption time stated in
clause 6.1.1.5.2.

##### 6.1.1.5.2 Interruption time

The interruption time is the time between end of the last TTI containing
the RRC command on the old PDSCH and the time the UE starts transmission
of the new PRACH, excluding the RRC procedure delay.

When in inter-frequency handover is commanded, the interruption time
shall be less than T~interrupt~

T~interrupt~ = T~search~ + T~IU~ + T~processing~ + T~∆~ + T~margin~ ms

Where:

T~search~ is the time required to search the target cell when the
handover command is received by the UE. If the target cell is a known
cell, then T~search~ = 0 ms. If the target cell is an unknown
inter-frequency cell and the target cell Es/Iot≥-2 dB, then T~search~ =
8\*3\* T~rs~ ms. Regardless of whether DRX is in use by the UE,
T~search~ shall still be based on non-DRX target cell search times.

T~processing~ is time for UE processing. T~processing~ can be up 40ms.

T~margin~ is time for SSB post-processing. T~margin~ can be up to 2ms.

T~∆~ is time for fine time tracking and acquiring full timing
information of the target cell. T~∆~ = T~rs~ for both known and unknown
target cell.

T~IU~ is the interruption uncertainty in acquiring the first available
PRACH occasion in the new cell. T~IU~ can be up to the summation of SSB
to PRACH occasion association period and 10 ms. SSB to PRACH occasion
associated period is defined in the table 8.1-1 of TS 38.213 \[3\].

T~rs~ is the SMTC periodicity of the target NR cell if the UE has been
provided with an SMTC configuration for the target cell in the handover
command, otherwise Trs is the SMTC configured in the measObjectNR having
the same SSB frequency and subcarrier spacing. If such measObjectNRs
configured by MN and SN have different SMTC, Trs is the periodicity of
one of the SMTC which is up to UE implementation. If the UE is not
provided SMTC configuration or measurement object on this frequency, the
requirement in this clause is applied with T~rs~=5ms assuming the SSB
transmission periodicity is 5ms. There is no requirement if the SSB
transmission periodicity is not 5ms.

In FR2, the target cell is known if it has been meeting the following
conditions:

During the last 5 seconds before the reception of the handover command:

\- the UE has sent a valid measurement report for the target cell and

\- One of the SSBs measured from the NR target cell being configured
remains detectable according to the cell identification conditions
specified in clause 9.3,

\- One of the SSBs measured from the target cell also remains detectable
during the handover delay according to the cell identification
conditions specified in clause 9.3.

otherwise it is unknown.

### 6.1.2 NR Handover to other RATs

#### 6.1.2.1 NR -- E-UTRAN Handover

##### 6.1.2.1.1 Introduction

The purpose of inter-RAT handover from NR to E-UTRAN is to change the
radio access mode of PCell from NR to E-UTRAN. The handover procedure is
initiated from NR with a RRC message that implies a handover as
described in TS 38.331 \[2\]. The requirements in this clause are
applicable to SA NR, NE-DC and NR-DC, and to handover from SA NR cell in
a carrier frequency with CCA to E-UTRAN.

##### 6.1.2.1.2 Handover delay

When the UE receives a RRC message implying handover to E-UTRAN the UE
shall be ready to start the transmission of the uplink PRACH channel in
E-UTRA within D~handover~ ms from the end of the last TTI containing the
RRC command. D~handover~ is defined as

D~handover~ = T~RRC\_procedure\_delay~ + T~interrupt~

Where:

T~RRC\_procedure\_delay~: it is the RRC procedure delay, which is 50ms

T~interrupt~: it is the time between end of the last TTI containing the
RRC command on the NR PDSCH and the time the UE starts transmission of
the PRACH in E-UTRAN, excluding T~RRC\_procedure\_delay~. T~interrupt~
is defined in clause 6.1.2.1.3.

##### 6.1.2.1.3 Interruption time

When the inter-RAT handover to E-UTRAN is commanded, the interruption
time shall be less than T~interrupt~

T~interrupt~ = T~search~ + T~IU~ + 20 ms

Where:

T~search~ is the time required to search the target cell when the target
cell is not already known when the handover command is received by the
UE. If the target cell is known, then T~search~ = 0 ms. If the target
cell is unknown and signal quality is sufficient for successful cell
detection on the first attempt, then T~search~ = 80 ms. Regardless of
whether DRX is in use by the UE, T~search~ shall still be based on
non-DRX target cell search times.

T~IU~ is the interruption uncertainty in acquiring the first available
PRACH occasion in the new cell. T~IU~ can be up to 30 ms.

NOTE: The actual value of T~IU~ shall depend upon the PRACH
configuration used in the target cell.

In the interruption requirement a cell is known if it has been meeting
the relevant cell identification requirement during the last 5 seconds
otherwise it is unknown. Relevant E-UTRAN cell identification
requirements are described in clause 9.4.1.

#### 6.1.2.2 NR -- UTRAN Handover

#### 6.1.2.2.1 Introduction

The purpose of inter-RAT handover from NR to UTRAN is to change the
radio access mode from NR to UTRAN. The handover procedure is initiated
from NR with a RRC message that implies a hard handover as described in
TS 38.331 \[2\].

##### 6.1.2.2.2 Handover delay

When the UE receives a RRC message implying handover to UTRAN the UE
shall be ready to start the transmission of the new UTRA uplink DPCCH
within D~handover~ msfrom the end of the last NR TTI containing the RRC
*MobilityfromNRCommand* command.

where:

\- D~handover~ equals the RRC procedure delay, which is 50 ms plus the
interruption time stated in clause 6.1.2.2.3.

##### 6.1.2.2.3 Interruption time

The interruption time is the time between the end of the last TTI
containing the RRC command on the NR PDSCH and the time the UE starts
transmission on the uplink DPCCH in UTRAN, excluding the RRC procedure
delay. The interruption time depends on whether the target cell is known
to the UE or not.

The target cell is known if it has been measured by the UE during the
last 5 seconds otherwise it is unknown. The UE shall always perform a
UTRA synchronisation procedure as part of the handover procedure.

If the target cell is known the interruption time shall be less than
T~interrupt1~

T~interrupt1~ = T~IU~+T~sync~+50+ 10\*F~max~ + T~MC~ ms

If the target cell is unknown the interruption time shall be less than
T~interrupt2~

T~interrupt2~ = T~IU~+T~sync~+150 + 10\*F~max~ + T~MC~ ms

This requirement shall be met, provided that there is one target cell in
the *MobilityfromNRCommand* command. Performance requirements for E-UTRA
to UTRA soft handover are not specified. When UE is connected to an NR
cell, UTRA SFN timing measurements are not reported. This implies that
the timing of the DPCH of the UTRA target cells in the active set cannot
be configured by UTRAN to guarantee that all target cells fall within
the UE reception window of T~0~ +/- 148 chips.

Where:

\- T~IU~ is the interruption uncertainty when changing the timing from
the NR to the new UTRAN cell. T~IU~ can be up to one UTRA frame (10 ms).

\- F~max~ denotes the maximum number of radio frames within the
transmission time intervals of all transport channels that are
multiplexed into the same CCTrCH on the UTRA target cell. If HS-PDSCH is
configured in the UTRA target cell, F~max~ is 4 radio frames.

\- T~sync~ is the time required for measuring the downlink DPCCH channel
as stated in TS 25.214 \[32\], clause 4.3.1.2. In case higher layers
indicate the usage of a post-verification period T~sync~=0 ms. Otherwise
T~sync~=40 ms.

\- T~MC~ is 0ms if a single UTRA cell is configured as the handover
target, otherwise 20ms if handover to UTRA with 1, 2 or 3 UTRA carriers
with secondary HS-PDSCH is configured.

The phase reference is the primary CPICH.

The requirements in this clause assume that N312 has the smallest
possible value i.e. only one insync is required.

### 6.1.3 NR DAPS Handover

#### 6.1.3.1 Introduction

The requirements in this clause are applicable to DAPS handover to
change the NR PCell to another NR cell.

Note: requirements only apply if

\- the UE indicates 'no-gap' via *intraFreq-needForGap* for
intra-frequency measurement of source cell and intra-frequency
measurement of target cell, or

\- the SSB of source cell is completely contained in the active DL BWP
of the source cell, and the SSB of target cell is completely contained
in the active DL BWP of the target cell, or

\- the initial DL and UL BWP of source cell is confined within the
active DL and UL BWP of the source cell respectively, and the initial DL
and UL BWP of target cell is confined within the active DL and UL BWP of
the target cell respectively.

#### 6.1.3.2 NR FR1 - NR FR1 DAPS Handover

The requirements in this clause are applicable to both intra-frequency
and inter-frequency handovers from NR FR1 cell to NR FR1 cell. A DAPS
handover is intra-frequency if the centre frequency of the SSB of the
source cell and the centre frequency of the SSB of the target cell are
the same, and the subcarrier spacing of the two SSBs are also the same.

Note: For intra-frequency DAPS handover, no requirement applies if
active DL and UL BWP of target cell is not confined within the active DL
and UL BWP of the source cell respectively.

Note: For inter-frequency DAPS handover, no requirement applies if the
BWP of target cell is overlaped with the BWP of source cell in frequency
domain.

An FR1 DAPS handover is synchronous if it meets the conditions in table
6.1.3.2-1, otherwise it is asynchronous

Table 6.1.3.2-1: Sync conditions for FR1 DAPS handover

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Type of handover     | Maximum receive      | Maximum transmit     |
|                      | timing difference    | timing difference    |
|                      | between source and   | between source and   |
|                      | target cell (µs) for | target cell (µs) for |
|                      | sync DAPS handover   | sync DAPS handover   |
+======================+======================+======================+
| Intra-fr             | 6µs                  | 7.6 µs               |
| equency^Note\ 1,2,3^ |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Intra-band           | 6µs                  | 7.6 µs               |
| inter-frequency      |                      |                      |
| ^Note\ 1,2,3^        |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Inter-band           | 33 µs                | 34.6 µs              |
| inter-frequency      |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Note 1: For          |                      |                      |
| synchonous DAPS      |                      |                      |
| handover, if the     |                      |                      |
| receive time         |                      |                      |
| difference exceeds   |                      |                      |
| the cyclic prefix    |                      |                      |
| length of that SCS,  |                      |                      |
| demodulation         |                      |                      |
| performance          |                      |                      |
| degradation is       |                      |                      |
| expected for the     |                      |                      |
| first symbol of the  |                      |                      |
| slot. For            |                      |                      |
| asynchronous DAPS    |                      |                      |
| handover, if the     |                      |                      |
| receive time         |                      |                      |
| difference exceeds   |                      |                      |
| the cyclic prefix    |                      |                      |
| length of that SCS,  |                      |                      |
| interruptions may    |                      |                      |
| occur depending on   |                      |                      |
| UE implementation.   |                      |                      |
| The duration and     |                      |                      |
| frequency of         |                      |                      |
| occurrence of such   |                      |                      |
| interruptions is not |                      |                      |
| specified.           |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| Note 2: For DAPS     |                      |                      |
| handover on a TDD    |                      |                      |
| band, after starting |                      |                      |
| RACH procedure, a UE |                      |                      |
| is not required to   |                      |                      |
| transmit in the      |                      |                      |
| uplink to any of     |                      |                      |
| source and target    |                      |                      |
| cells earlier than   |                      |                      |
| N~RX-TX~ after the   |                      |                      |
| end of the last      |                      |                      |
| received downlink    |                      |                      |
| symbol from any of   |                      |                      |
| source and target    |                      |                      |
| cells in the same    |                      |                      |
| TDD band where       |                      |                      |
| N~RX-TX~=25600Tc.    |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| Note 3: For DAPS     |                      |                      |
| handover on a TDD    |                      |                      |
| band, after starting |                      |                      |
| RACH procedure, a UE |                      |                      |
| is not required to   |                      |                      |
| receive in the       |                      |                      |
| downlink from any of |                      |                      |
| source and target    |                      |                      |
| cells earlier than   |                      |                      |
| N~TX-RX~ after the   |                      |                      |
| end of the last      |                      |                      |
| transmitted uplink   |                      |                      |
| symbol to any of     |                      |                      |
| source and target    |                      |                      |
| cells in the same    |                      |                      |
| TDD band where       |                      |                      |
| N~TX-RX~=25600Tc.    |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

##### 6.1.3.2.1 DAPS handover delay

Procedure delays for the procedure that can command a DAPS handover are
specified in TS 38.331 \[2\].

When the UE receives a RRC message implying handover, the UE shall be
ready to start the transmission of the new uplink PRACH channel within
D~handover1~ seconds from the end of the last TTI containing the RRC
command when UE is configured with dual active protocol stack handover.

D~handover1~ = *T~RRC\_procedure~* + T~search~ + T~IU~ + T~processing~ +
T~∆~ + T~margin~ ms

Where:

*T~RRC\_procedure~* is the maximum RRC procedure delay as specified in
clause 12 in TS 38.331 \[2\].

T~search~, T~IU~, T~processing~, T~∆~ and T~margin~ are defined in
clause 6.1.1.2.2.

After successful RACH procedure of the target cell, when the UE receives
an RRC message implying source cell release command, the UE shall
accomplish the release actions specified in TS 38.331 \[2\] within
D~handover2~.

D~handover2~ = *T~RRC\_procedure~*+ T~interrupt2~

Where:

*T~RRC\_procedure~* is the RRC procedure delay as specified in clause 12
in TS 38.331 \[2\].

*T~interrupt2~ is* defined in clause 6.1.3.2.2.

##### 6.1.3.2.2 Interruption time

During D~handover1~, the UE is allowed an interruption of up to
T~interrupt1~ on source cell.

For FR1-to-FR1 intra-frequency handover, T~interrupt1~ is specified in
Table 6.1.3.2.2-1.

Table 6.1.3.2.2-1: T~interrupt1~ for FR1-to-FR1 intra-frequency DAPS HO

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ![](media/i    | NR Slot length | Interruption   | Interruption   |
| mage6.wmf){wid | (ms)           | length         | length         |
| th="0.16875in" |                | T~interrupt1~  | T~interrupt1~  |
| heigh          |                | (sl            | (sl            |
| t="0.16875in"} |                | ots^Note\ 1^), | ots^Note\ 1^), |
|                |                | synchronous    | asynchronous   |
|                |                | DAPS HO        | DAPS HO        |
+================+================+================+================+
| 0              | 1              | 1              | 2              |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 1              | 0.5            | 2              | 3              |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 2              | 0.25           | 4              | 5              |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Note 1: The    |                |                |                |
| same SCS of    |                |                |                |
| source cell    |                |                |                |
| and target     |                |                |                |
| cell is        |                |                |                |
| assumed.       |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| Note 2: It is  |                |                |                |
| assumed that   |                |                |                |
| the BWP of     |                |                |                |
| target cell is |                |                |                |
| not larger     |                |                |                |
| than the BWP   |                |                |                |
| of source      |                |                |                |
| cell. It is    |                |                |                |
| assumed that   |                |                |                |
| the CBW of     |                |                |                |
| target cell is |                |                |                |
| not larger     |                |                |                |
| than the CBW   |                |                |                |
| of source cell |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| Note 3: Void   |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

For FR1-to-FR1 intra-band inter-frequency handover, T~interrupt1~ is
specified in Table 6.1.3.2.2-2.

Table 6.1.3.2.2-2: T~interrupt1~ for FR1-to-FR1 intra-band
inter-frequency DAPS HO

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ![](media      | NR Slot length | T~interrupt1~  | T~interrupt1~  |
| /image6.wmf){w | (ms)           | (sl            | (sl            |
| idth="0.155555 |                | ots^Note\ 1^), | ots^Note\ 1^), |
| 55555555556in" |                | synchronous    | asynchronous   |
| hei            |                | DAPS HO        | DAPS HO        |
| ght="0.175in"} |                |                |                |
+================+================+================+================+
| 0              | 1              | 1 +            | 2+             |
|                |                | T~S            | T~S            |
|                |                | MTC\_duration~ | MTC\_duration~ |
|                |                | \*             | \*             |
|                |                | $N_{\text{s    | $N_{\text{s    |
|                |                | lot}}^{\text{s | lot}}^{\text{s |
|                |                | ubframe},\mu}$ | ubframe},\mu}$ |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 1              | 0.5            | 2 +            | 3+             |
|                |                | T~S            | T~S            |
|                |                | MTC\_duration~ | MTC\_duration~ |
|                |                | \*             | \*             |
|                |                | $N_{\text{s    | $N_{\text{s    |
|                |                | lot}}^{\text{s | lot}}^{\text{s |
|                |                | ubframe},\mu}$ | ubframe},\mu}$ |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 2              | 0.25           | 4 +            | 5+             |
|                |                | T~S            | T~S            |
|                |                | MTC\_duration~ | MTC\_duration~ |
|                |                | \*             | \*             |
|                |                | $N_{\text{s    | $N_{\text{s    |
|                |                | lot}}^{\text{s | lot}}^{\text{s |
|                |                | ubframe},\mu}$ | ubframe},\mu}$ |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Note 1: The    |                |                |                |
| same SCS of    |                |                |                |
| source cell    |                |                |                |
| and target     |                |                |                |
| cell is        |                |                |                |
| assumed.       |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| Note 2:        |                |                |                |
| T~S            |                |                |                |
| MTC\_duration~ |                |                |                |
| measured in    |                |                |                |
| subframes is   |                |                |                |
| the longest    |                |                |                |
| SMTC duration  |                |                |                |
| between source |                |                |                |
| cell and       |                |                |                |
| target cell.   |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| Note 3: Void   |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| Note 4:        |                |                |                |
| $N_{\text{s    |                |                |                |
| lot}}^{\text{s |                |                |                |
| ubframe},\mu}$ |                |                |                |
| is as defined  |                |                |                |
| in TS 38.211   |                |                |                |
| \[6\].         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

For FR1-to-FR1 inter-band handover, T~interrupt1~ is specified in Table
6.1.3.2.2-3.

Table 6.1.3.2.2-3: T~interrupt1~ for FR1-to-FR1 inter-band DAPS HO

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.15555555555555556in" height="0.175in"}   NR Slot length (ms)   T~interrupt1~ (slots)   
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- ----------------------- -------
                                                                          of source cell        Sync                    Async
  0                                                                       1                     1                       2
  1                                                                       0.5                   2                       3
  2                                                                       0.25                  5                       5

During D~handover2~, the UE is allowed an interruption of up to
T~interrupt2~ on target cell.

For FR1-to-FR1 intra-frequency handover, T~interrupt2~ is specified in
Table 6.1.3.2.2-4 when the BWP of target cell is smaller than the BWP of
source cell, and T~interrupt2~ is specified in Table 6.1.3.2.2-5 when
the same BWP is used for target cell and source cell.

Table 6.1.3.2.2-4: T~interrupt2~ for FR1-to-FR1 intra-frequency DAPS HO

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ![](media/i    | NR Slot length | Interruption   | T~interrupt2~  |
| mage6.wmf){wid | (ms)           | length X       | (s             |
| th="0.16875in" |                | (s             | lots^Note\ 1^) |
| heigh          |                | lots^Note\ 1^) | for            |
| t="0.16875in"} |                |                | asynchronous   |
|                |                |                | DAPS HO        |
+================+================+================+================+
| 0              | 1              | 2              | 3              |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 1              | 0.5            | 4              | 5              |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 2              | 0.25           | 8              | 9              |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Note 1: The    |                |                |                |
| same SCS of    |                |                |                |
| source cell    |                |                |                |
| and target     |                |                |                |
| cell is        |                |                |                |
| assumed.       |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| Note 2: It is  |                |                |                |
| assumed that   |                |                |                |
| the BWP of     |                |                |                |
| target cell is |                |                |                |
| smaller than   |                |                |                |
| the BWP of     |                |                |                |
| source cell.   |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

Table 6.1.3.2.2-5: T~interrupt2~ for FR1-to-FR1 intra-frequency DAPS HO

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ![](media/i    | NR Slot length | Interruption   | T~interrupt2~  |
| mage6.wmf){wid | (ms)           | length X       | (s             |
| th="0.16875in" |                | (s             | lots^Note\ 1^) |
| heigh          |                | lots^Note\ 1^) | for            |
| t="0.16875in"} |                |                | asynchronous   |
|                |                |                | DAPS HO        |
+================+================+================+================+
| 0              | 1              | 1              | 2              |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 1              | 0.5            | 2              | 3              |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 2              | 0.25           | 4              | 5              |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Note 1: The    |                |                |                |
| same SCS of    |                |                |                |
| source cell    |                |                |                |
| and target     |                |                |                |
| cell is        |                |                |                |
| assumed.       |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| Note 2: It is  |                |                |                |
| assumed that   |                |                |                |
| the BWP of     |                |                |                |
| target cell is |                |                |                |
| the same as    |                |                |                |
| the BWP of     |                |                |                |
| source cell.   |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| Note 3: Void   |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

For FR1-to-FR1 intra-band inter-frequency handover, T~interrupt2~ is
specified in Table 6.1.3.2.2-6.

Table 6.1.3.2.2-6: T~interrupt2~ for FR1-to-FR1 intra-band
inter-frequency DAPS HO

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ![](media      | NR Slot length | T~interrupt2~  | T~interrupt2~  |
| /image6.wmf){w | (ms)           | (s             | (s             |
| idth="0.155555 |                | lots^Note\ 1^) | lots^Note\ 1^) |
| 55555555556in" |                | for            | for            |
| hei            |                | synchronous    | asynchronous   |
| ght="0.175in"} |                | DAPS HO        | DAPS HO        |
+================+================+================+================+
| 0              | 1              | 1 +            | 2+             |
|                |                | T~S            | T~S            |
|                |                | MTC\_duration~ | MTC\_duration~ |
|                |                | \*             | \*             |
|                |                | $N_{\text{s    | $N_{\text{s    |
|                |                | lot}}^{\text{s | lot}}^{\text{s |
|                |                | ubframe},\mu}$ | ubframe},\mu}$ |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 1              | 0.5            | 2 +            | 3+             |
|                |                | T~S            | T~S            |
|                |                | MTC\_duration~ | MTC\_duration~ |
|                |                | \*             | \*             |
|                |                | $N_{\text{s    | $N_{\text{s    |
|                |                | lot}}^{\text{s | lot}}^{\text{s |
|                |                | ubframe},\mu}$ | ubframe},\mu}$ |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 2              | 0.25           | 4 +            | 5+             |
|                |                | T~S            | T~S            |
|                |                | MTC\_duration~ | MTC\_duration~ |
|                |                | \*             | \*             |
|                |                | $N_{\text{s    | $N_{\text{s    |
|                |                | lot}}^{\text{s | lot}}^{\text{s |
|                |                | ubframe},\mu}$ | ubframe},\mu}$ |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Note 1: The    |                |                |                |
| same SCS of    |                |                |                |
| source cell    |                |                |                |
| and target     |                |                |                |
| cell is        |                |                |                |
| assumed.       |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| Note 2:        |                |                |                |
| T~S            |                |                |                |
| MTC\_duration~ |                |                |                |
| measured in    |                |                |                |
| subframes is   |                |                |                |
| the longest    |                |                |                |
| SMTC duration  |                |                |                |
| between source |                |                |                |
| cell and       |                |                |                |
| target cell.   |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| Note 3: Void.  |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| Note 4:        |                |                |                |
| $N_{\text{s    |                |                |                |
| lot}}^{\text{s |                |                |                |
| ubframe},\mu}$ |                |                |                |
| is as defined  |                |                |                |
| in TS 38.211   |                |                |                |
| \[6\].         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

For FR1-to-FR1 inter-band handover, T~interrupt2~ is specified in Table
6.1.3.2.2-7.

Table 6.1.3.2.2-7: T~interrupt2~ for FR1-to-FR1 inter-band DAPS HO

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.15555555555555556in" height="0.175in"}   NR slot length (ms)   T~interrupt2~ (slots)   
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- ----------------------- -------
                                                                          of target cell        Sync                    Async
  0                                                                       1                     1                       2
  1                                                                       0.5                   2                       3
  2                                                                       0.25                  5                       5

#### 6.1.3.3 NR FR2- NR FR1 DAPS Handover

The requirements in this clause are applicable to inter-frequency
handovers from NR FR2 cell to NR FR1 cell.

An FR2-FR1 DAPS handover is synchronous if it meets the conditions in
table 6.1.3.3-1, otherwise it is asynchronous

Table 6.1.3.3-1: Sync condition for FR2-FR1 DAPS handover

  Frequency Range of the pair of carriers   Maximum receive timing difference between source and taget cell (µs) for sync DAPS handover   Maximum transmit timing difference between source and taget cell (µs) for sync DAPS handover
  ----------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Between FR1 and FR2                       25                                                                                            26.1

##### 6.1.3.3.1 DAPS handover delay

Procedure delays for the procedure that can command a DAPS handover are
specified in TS 38.331 \[2\].

When the UE receives a RRC message implying handover, the UE shall be
ready to start the transmission of the new uplink PRACH channel within
D~handover1~ ms from the end of the last TTI containing the RRC command
when UE is configured with dual active protocol stack handover.

D~handover1~ = *T~RRC\_procedure~* + T~search~ + T~IU~ + T~processing~ +
T~∆~ + T~margin~ ms

Where:

*T~RRC\_procedure~* is the maximum RRC procedure delay as specified in
clause 12 in TS 38.331 \[2\].

T~search~, T~IU~, T~processing~, T~∆~ and T~margin~ are defined in
clause 6.1.1.3.2.

After successful RACH procedure of the target cell, when the UE receives
an RRC message implying source cell release command, the UE shall
accomplish the release actions specified in TS 38.331 \[2\] within
D~handover2~.

D~handover2~ = *T~RRC\_procedure~*+ T~interrupt2~

Where:

*T~RRC\_procedure~* is the RRC procedure delay as specified in clause 12
in TS 38.331 \[2\].

*T~interrupt2~ is* defined in clause 6.1.3.3.2.

##### 6.1.3.3.2 Interruption time

During D~handover1~, the UE is allowed an interruption of up to
T~interrupt1~ on source cell.

For FR2-to-FR1 inter-band handover, T~interrupt1~ is specified in Table
6.1.3.3.2-1.

Table 6.1.3.3.2-1: T~interrupt1~ for FR2-to-FR1 inter-band DAPS HO

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.15555555555555556in" height="0.175in"}   NR slot length (ms)   T~interrupt1~ (slots)   
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- ----------------------- -------
                                                                          of source cell        Sync                    Async
  2                                                                       0.25                  5                       5
  3                                                                       0.125                 9                       9

During D~handover2~, the UE is allowed an interruption of up to
T~interrupt2~ on target cell.

For FR2-to-FR1 inter-band handover, T~interrupt2~ is specified in Table
6.1.3.3.2-2.

Table 6.1.3.3.2-2: T~interrupt2~ for FR2-to-FR1 inter-band DAPS HO

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.15555555555555556in" height="0.175in"}   NR slot length (ms)   T~interrupt2~ (slots)   
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- ----------------------- -------
                                                                          of target cell        Sync                    Async
  0                                                                       1                     1                       2
  1                                                                       0.5                   2                       3
  2                                                                       0.25                  5                       5

#### 6.1.3.4 NR FR1- NR FR2 DAPS Handover

The requirements in this clause are applicable to inter-frequency
handovers from NR FR1 cell to NR FR2 cell.

An FR1-FR2 DAPS handover is synchronous if it meets the conditions in
table 6.1.3.4-1, otherwise it is asynchronous

Table 6.1.3.4-1, : Sync condition for FR1-FR2 DAPS handover

  Frequency Range of the pair of carriers   Maximum receive timing difference between source and taget cell (µs) for sync DAPS handover   Maximum transmit timing difference between source and taget cell (µs)Note 1 sync DAPS handover
  ----------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Between FR1 and FR2                       25                                                                                            26.1

##### 6.1.3.4.1 DAPS handover delay

Procedure delays for the procedure that can command a DAPS handover are
specified in TS 38.331 \[2\].

When the UE receives a RRC message implying handover, the UE shall be
ready to start the transmission of the new uplink PRACH channel within
D~handover1~ ms from the end of the last TTI containing the RRC command
when UE is configured with dual active protocol stack handover.

D~handover1~ = *T~RRC\_procedure~* + T~search~ + T~IU~ + T~processing~ +
T~∆~ + T~margin~ ms

Where:

*T~RRC\_procedure~* is the maximum RRC procedure delay as specified in
clause 12 in TS 38.331 \[2\].

T~search~, T~IU~, T~processing~, T~∆~ and T~margin~ are defined in
clause 6.1.1.5.2.

After successful RACH procedure of the target cell, when the UE receives
an RRC message implying source cell release command, the UE shall
accomplish the release actions specified in TS 38.331 \[2\] within
D~handover2~.

D~handover2~ = *T~RRC\_procedure~*+ T~interrupt2~

Where:

*T~RRC\_procedure~* is the RRC procedure delay as specified in clause 12
in TS 38.331 \[2\].

*T~interrupt2~ is* defined in clause 6.1.3.4.2.

##### 6.1.3.4.2 Interruption time

During D~handover1~, the UE is allowed an interruption of up to
T~interrupt1~ on source cell.

For FR1-to-FR2 inter-band handover, T~interrupt1~ is specified in Table
6.1.3.4.2-1.

Table 6.1.3.4.2-1: T~interrupt1~ for FR1-to-FR2 inter-band DAPS HO

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.15555555555555556in" height="0.175in"}   NR slot length (ms)   T~interrupt1~ (slots)   
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- ----------------------- -------
                                                                          of source cell        Sync                    Async
  0                                                                       1                     1                       2
  1                                                                       0.5                   2                       3
  2                                                                       0.25                  5                       5

During D~handover2~, the UE is allowed an interruption of up to
T~interrupt2~ on target cell.

For FR1-to-FR2 inter-band handover, T~interrupt2~ is specified in Table
6.1.3.4.2-2.

Table 6.1.3.4.2-2: T~interrupt2~ for FR1-to-FR2 inter-band DAPS HO

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.15555555555555556in" height="0.175in"}   NR slot length (ms)   T~interrupt2~ (slots)   
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- ----------------------- -------
                                                                          of target cell        Sync                    Async
  2                                                                       0.25                  5                       5
  3                                                                       0.125                 9                       9

### 6.1.4 NR Conditional Handover

#### 6.1.4.1 Introduction

The requirements in this clause are applicable to conditional handover
to change the NR PCell to another NR cell.

#### 6.1.4.2 NR FR1 -- NR FR1 conditional handover

The requirements in this clause are applicable to both intra-frequency
and inter-frequency conditional handover from NR FR1 cell to NR FR1
cell.

6.1.4.2.1 Handover delay

Procedure delays for all procedures that can command a conditional
handover are specified in TS 38.331 \[2\].

When the UE receives a RRC message implying conditional handover the UE
shall be ready to start the transmission of the new uplink PRACH channel
within D~CHO~ seconds from the end of the last TTI containing the RRC
command.

D~CHO~ = T~RRC~ + *T~Event\_DU~ +* T~measure~ + T~interrupt~ +
T~CHO\_execution~

Where:

**T~RRC~** is the RRC procedure delay defined in clause 12 in
TS 38.331 \[2\].

*T~Event\_DU~* is the delay uncertainty which is the time from when the
UE successfully decodes a conditional handover command until a condition
exists at the measurement reference point which will trigger the
conditional handover.

**T~measure~** is the measurements time stated in clause 6.1.4.2.2.

T~CHO\_execution~ is the conditional execution preparation time in
clause 6.1.4.2.3.

**T~interrupt~** is the interruption time stated in clause 6.1.4.2.4.

6.1.4.2.2 Measurement time

The measurement time delay is defined from the end of *T~Event\_DU~*
until UE executes a handover to a target cell and interruption time
starts.

For intra-frequency handover, the measurement time delay measured
without Time To Trigger (TTT) and L3 filtering shall be less than
Tidentify intra with index or Tidentify\_intra\_without\_index defined
in clause 9.2.5.1 or clause 9.2.6.2.

For inter-frequency handover, the measurement time delay measured
without Time To Trigger (TTT) and L3 filtering shall be less than
Tidentify\_inter\_with\_index or Tidentify\_inter\_without\_index
defined in clause 9.3.4.

When TTT or L3 filtering is used an additional delay can be expected.

A cell is detectable only if at least one SSB measured from the cell
being configured remains detectable during the time period
Tidentify\_intra\_without\_index or Tidentify\_intra\_with\_index for
intra-frequency handover or Tidentify\_inter\_without\_index for
inter-frequency handover. If a cell which has been detectable at least
for the time period Tidentify\_intra\_without\_index or
Tidentify\_intra\_with\_index for intra-frequency handover or
Tidentify\_inter\_without\_index for inter-frequency handover becomes
undetectable for a period and then the cell becomes detectable again and
triggers a handover, the measurement time delay shall be less than
TSSB\_measurement\_period\_intra or TSSB\_measurement\_period\_inter
provided the timing to that cell has not changed more than ±
3200/$2^{µ}$ Tc while the measurement gap has not been available and the
L3 filter has not been used, where *µ* is the SCS configuration as
defined in clause 4.2 of TS 38.211 \[3\]. When L3 filtering is used, an
additional delay can be expected.

6.1.4.2.3 Preparation time

T~CHO\_execution~ is the UE execution preparation time for conditional
handover, and starts after UE realizes the condition of CHO is met and
identity of the target cell is determined. T~CHO\_execution~ can be up
to 10ms.

6.1.4.2.4 Interruption time

The interruption time is the time between when the UE starts to execute
the conditional handover to the target cell and the time the UE starts
transmission of the new PRACH.

For intra-frequency or inter-frequency conditional conditional handover,
the interruption time shall be less than

T~interrupt~ = T~processing~ + T~IU~ + T~∆~ + T~margin~ ms

Where:

T~processing~ is time for UE processing. T~processing~ can be up to
20ms.

T~IU~ is the interruption uncertainty in acquiring the first available
PRACH occasion in the new cell. T~IU~ can be up to the summation of SSB
to PRACH occasion association period and 10 ms. SSB to PRACH occasion
associated period is defined in the table 8.1-1 of TS 38.213 \[3\]

T~∆~ is time for fine time tracking and acquiring full timing
information of the target cell. T~Δ~ = T~rs~.

T~margin~ is time for SSB post-processing. T~margin~ can be up to 2ms.

T~rs~ is the SMTC periodicity of the target NR cell if the UE has been
provided with an SMTC configuration for the target cellin the handover
command, otherwise Trs is the SMTC configured in the measObjectNR having
the same SSB frequency and subcarrier spacing. If the UE is not provided
SMTC configuration or measurement object on this frequency, the
requirement in this clause is applied with T~rs~=5ms assuming the SSB
transmission periodicity is 5ms. There is no requirement if the SSB
transmission periodicity is not 5ms. If the UE has been provided with
higher layer in TS 38.331 \[2\] signaling of *smtc2* prior to the
handover command, T~rs~ follows *smtc1* or *smtc2* according to the
physical cell ID of the target cell.

NOTE 1: The actual value of T~IU~ shall depend upon the PRACH
configuration used in the target cell.

#### 6.1.4.3 NR FR2 -- NR FR1 conditional handover

The requirements in this clause are applicable to inter-frequency
conditional handover from NR FR2 cell to NR FR1 cell.

The requirements defined in clause 6.1.4.2 applies assuming
inter-frequency handover and:

T~processing~ is time for UE processing. T~processing~ can be up to
40ms.

#### 6.1.4.4 NR FR2 -- NR FR2 conditional handover

The requirements in this clause are applicable to both intra-frequency
and inter-frequency conditional handover from NR FR2 cell to NR FR2
cell.

##### 6.1.4.4.1 Handover delay

Procedure delays for all procedures that can command a conditional
handover are specified in TS 38.331 \[2\].

When the UE receives a RRC message implying conditional handover the UE
shall be ready to start the transmission of the new uplink PRACH channel
within D~CHO~ seconds from the end of the last TTI containing the RRC
command.

D~CHO~ = T~RRC~ + *T~Event\_DU~* + T~measure~ + T~interrupt~ +
T~CHO\_execution~

Where:

**T~RRC~** is the RRC procedure delay defined in clause 12 in
TS 38.331 \[2\].

*T~Event\_DU~* is the delay uncertainty which is the time from when the
UE successfully decodes a conditional handover command until a condition
exists at the measurement reference point which will trigger the
conditional handover.

**T~measure~** is the measurements time stated in clause 6.1.4.4.2.

T~CHO\_execution~ is the conditional execution preparation time in
clause 6.1.4.4.3. **T~interrupt~** is the interruption time stated in
clause 6.1.4.4.4.

##### 6.1.4.4.2 Measurement time

The measurement time delay is defined from the end of *T~Event\_DU~*
until UE executes a handover to a target cell and interruption time
starts.

For intra-frequency handover, the measurement time delay measured
without Time To Trigger (TTT) and L3 filtering shall be less than
Tidentify intra with index or Tidentify\_intra\_without\_index defined
in clause 9.2.5.1 or clause 9.2.6.2.

For inter-frequency handover, the measurement time delay measured
without Time To Trigger (TTT) and L3 filtering shall be less than
Tidentify\_inter\_with\_index or Tidentify\_inter\_without\_index
defined in clause 9.3.4.

When TTT or L3 filtering is used an additional delay can be expected.

A cell is detectable only if at least one SSB measured from the cell
being configured remains detectable during the time period
Tidentify\_intra\_without\_index or Tidentify\_intra\_with\_index for
intra-frequency handover or Tidentify\_inter\_without\_index for
inter-frequency handover. If a cell which has been detectable at least
for the time period Tidentify\_intra\_without\_index or
Tidentify\_intra\_with\_index for intra-frequency handover or
Tidentify\_inter\_without\_index for inter-frequency handover becomes
undetectable for a period and then the cell becomes detectable again and
triggers a handover, the measurement time delay shall be less than
TSSB\_measurement\_period\_intra or TSSB\_measurement\_period\_inter
provided the timing to that cell has not changed more than ±
3200/$2^{µ}$ Tc while the measurement gap has not been available and the
L3 filter has not been used, where *µ* is the SCS configuration as
defined in clause 4.2 of TS 38.211 \[3\]. When L3 filtering is used, an
additional delay can be expected.

##### 6.1.4.4.3 Preparation time

T~CHO\_execution~ is the UE execution preparation time for conditional
handover, and starts after UE realizes the condition of CHO is met and
identity of the target cell is determined. T~CHO\_execution~ can be up
10ms.

##### 6.1.4.4.4 Interruption time

The interruption time is the time between when the UE starts to execute
the conditional handover to the target cell and the time the UE starts
transmission of the new PRACH.

For intra-frequency or inter-frequency conditional conditional handover,
the interruption time shall be less than

T~interrupt~ = T~processing~ + T~IU~ + T~∆~ + T~margin~ ms

Where:

T~processing~ is time for UE processing. T~processing~ can be up to
20ms.

T~IU~ is the interruption uncertainty in acquiring the first available
PRACH occasion in the new cell. T~IU~ can be up to the summation of SSB
to PRACH occasion association period and 10 ms. SSB to PRACH occasion
associated period is defined in the table 8.1-1 of TS 38.213 \[3\]

T~∆~ is time for fine time tracking and acquiring full timing
information of the target cell. T~Δ~ = T~rs~.

T~margin~ is time for SSB post-processing. T~margin~ can be up to 2ms.

T~rs~ is the SMTC periodicity of the target NR cell if the UE has been
provided with an SMTC configuration for the target cellin the handover
command, otherwise Trs is the SMTC configured in the measObjectNR having
the same SSB frequency and subcarrier spacing. If the UE is not provided
SMTC configuration or measurement object on this frequency, the
requirement in this clause is applied with T~rs~=5ms assuming the SSB
transmission periodicity is 5ms. There is no requirement if the SSB
transmission periodicity is not 5ms. If the UE has been provided with
higher layer in TS 38.331 \[2\] signaling of *smtc2* prior to the
handover command, T~rs~ follows *smtc1* or *smtc2* according to the
physical cell ID of the target cell.

NOTE 1: The actual value of T~IU~ shall depend upon the PRACH
configuration used in the target cell.

#### 6.1.4.5 NR FR1 -- NR FR2 conditional handover

The requirements in this clause are applicable to inter-frequency
conditional handover from NR FR1 cell to NR FR2 cell.

The requirements defined in clause 6.1.4.4 applies assuming
inter-frequency handover and:

T~processing~ is time for UE processing. T~processing~ can be up to
40ms.

6.1A Void 
---------

### 6.1A.1 Void 

#### 6.1A.1.1 Void

#### 6.1A.1.2 Void 

##### 6.1A.1.2.1 Void

##### 6.1A.1.2.2 Void

6.1B Handover to target cell using CCA
--------------------------------------

### 6.1B.1 NR Handover

#### 6.1B.1.1 Introduction

The purpose of NR handover to target cell using CCA is to change the NR
PCell to a target NR cell in a carrier frequency with CCA. The
requirements in this clause are applicable to NR SA.

In the requirements of clause 6.1B.1, the term SMTC occasion not
available at the UE refers to when the SMTC contains SSBs configured by
gNB in a cell on a carrier frequency subject to CCA, but the first two
successive candidate SSB positions for the same SSB index within the
discovery burst transmission window are not available at the UE due to
DL CCA failures at gNB during the corresponding detection or time
tracking period; otherwise the SMTC occasion is considered as available
at the UE.

In the requirements of clause 6.1B.1, the term PRACH occasion
unavailable for transmission refers to when the PRACH occasion is
configured by gNB but not transmitted by the UE during the corresponding
period due to UL CCA failure at the UE.

#### 6.1B.1.2 NR FR1 - NR FR1 Handover

The requirements in this clause are applicable to inter-frequency
handovers from NR FR1 cell to NR FR1 cell in carrier frequencies with
CCA, and to both intra-frequency and inter-frequency handovers from NR
FR1 cell in carrier frequencies with CCA to NR FR1 cell in carrier
frequencies with CCA.

#### 6.1B.1.2.1 Handover delay

When the UE receives an RRC message implying handover the UE shall be
ready to start the transmission of the new uplink PRACH channel within
D~handover~ ms from the end of the last TTI containing the RRC command.

Where:

D~handover~ equals the applicable RRC procedure delay to be defined in
clause12 in TS 38.331 \[2\] plus the interruption time stated in
clause 6.1B.1.2.2.

##### 6.1B.1.2.2 Interruption time

The interruption time is the time between end of the last TTI containing
the RRC command on the old PDSCH and the time the UE starts transmission
of the new PRACH, excluding the RRC procedure delay.

When intra-frequency or inter-frequency handover is commanded, the
interruption time shall be less than T~interrupt~

T~interrupt~ = T~search~ + T~IU~ + T~processing~ + T~∆~ + T~margin~ ms

Where:

T~search~ is the time required to search the target cell when the target
cell is not already known when the handover command is received by the
UE. If the target cell is known, then T~search~ = 0 ms. If the target
cell is an unknown intra-frequency cell and the target cell Es/Iot≥-2
dB, then T~search~ = (1+L~1~) \*T~rs~. If the target cell is an unknown
inter-frequency cell and the target cell Es/Iot≥-2 dB, then T~search~ =
(3+L~1~´) \*T~rs~ where L~1~ and L~1~´ are the number of SMTC occasions
not available at the UE during the intra-frequency and inter-frequency
detection period, respectively. Regardless of whether DRX is in use by
the UE, T~search~ shall still be based on non-DRX target cell search
times.

T~∆~ is time for fine time tracking and acquiring full timing
information of the target cell. T~∆~ = (1+ L~2~) \*T~rs~ ms, where L~2~
is the number of SMTC occasions not available at the UE during the time
tracking period.

T~processing~ is time for UE processing. T~processing~ can be up to
20ms.

T~margin~ is time for SSB post-processing. T~margin~ can be up to 2ms.

T~IU~ is the interruption uncertainty due to the random access procedure
when sending PRACH to the new cell. T~IU~ can be up to: (1+
**L~3~**)\*T~SSB,RO~ + 10 ms where T~SSB,RO~ is the SSB to PRACH
occasion association period as defined in Table 8.1-1 of TS 38.213 \[3\]
and L~3~ is the number of consecutive SSB to PRACH occasion association
periods during which no PRACH occasion is available for PRACH
transmission due to UL CCA failure. L~3~ = 0 for Type 2C UL channel
access procedure as defined in TS 37.213 \[33\]. When the UE is
configured with *both* the UL BWP with PRACH occasion on the target cell
and UL CCA failure detection/recovery, the interruption can be longer.

T~rs~ is the SMTC periodicity of the target NR cell in a carrier
frequency with CCA if the UE has been provided with an SMTC
configuration for the target cell in the handover command, otherwise
T~rs~ is the SMTC configured in the measObjectNR having the same SSB
frequency and subcarrier spacing. If the UE is not provided SMTC
configuration or measurement object on this frequency, the requirement
in this clause is applied with T~rs~=5ms assuming the SSB transmission
periodicity is 5ms. There is no requirement if the SSB transmission
periodicity is not 5ms.

NOTE 1: The interruption time considering the potential extensions
caused by L~1~, L~1~´,L~2~ , L~3~ *and by the UL CCA failure
detection/recovery mechanism* is limited by the T304 timer. The UE
behaviour at the T304 timer expiry is detailed in TS 38.331 \[2\].

In the interruption requirement a cell is known if it has been meeting
the relevant cell identification requirement during the last 5 seconds
otherwise it is unknown. Relevant cell identification requirements are
described in Clause 9.2A.5 for intra-frequency handover and
Clause 9.3A.4 for inter-frequency handover to a carrier frequency with
CCA.

6.2 RRC Connection Mobility Control
-----------------------------------

### 6.2.1 SA: RRC Re-establishment

#### 6.2.1.1 Introduction

This clause contains requirements on the UE regarding RRC connection
re-establishment procedure. RRC connection re-establishment is initiated
when a UE in RRC\_CONNECTED state on the carrier without CCA or on the
carrier with CCA loses RRC connection due to any of failure cases,
including radio link failure, handover failure, and RRC connection
reconfiguration failure. The RRC connection re-establishment procedure
is specified in clause 5.3.7 of TS 38.331 \[2\].

The requirements in this clause are applicable for RRC connection
re-establishment to NR cell.

#### 6.2.1.2 Requirements

In RRC\_CONNECTED state the UE shall be capable of sending
*RRCReestablishmentRequest* message within T~re-establish\_delay~
seconds from the moment it detects a loss in RRC connection. The total
RRC connection delay (T~re-establish\_delay~) shall be less than:

$$T_{re - establish\_ delay} = T_{UE\_ re - establish\_ delay} + T_{UL\_ grant}$$

T~UL\_grant~: It is the time required to acquire and process uplink
grant from the target PCell. The uplink grant is required to transmit
*RRCReestablishmentRequest* message.

The UE re-establishment delay (T~UE\_re-establish\_delay~) is specified
in clause 6.2.1.2.1.

##### 6.2.1.2.1 UE Re-establishment delay requirement

The UE re-establishment delay (T~UE\_re-establish\_delay~) is the time
between the moments when any of the conditions requiring RRC
re-establishment as defined in clause 5.3.7 in TS 38.331 \[2\] is
detected by the UE and when the UE sends PRACH to the target PCell. The
UE re-establishment delay (T~UE\_re-establish\_delay~) requirement shall
be less than:

$$T_{UE\_ re - establish\_ delay} = 50\ ms + T_{identify\_ intra\_ NR} + \sum_{i = 1}^{N_{\text{freq}} - 1}T_{identify\_ inter\_ NR,i} + T_{SI - NR} + T_{\text{PRACH}}$$

The intra-frequency target NR cell shall be considered detectable if
each relevant SSB can satisfy that:

\- SS-RSRP related side conditions given in clause 10.1.2 and 10.1.3 are
fulfilled for a corresponding NR Band for FR1 and FR2, respectively, and

\- the conditions of SSB\_RP and SSB Ês/Iot according to Annex B.2.2 for
a corresponding NR Band are fulfilled.

The inter-frequency target NR cell shall be considered detectable when
for each relevant SSB:

\- SS-RSRP related side conditions given in clause 10.1.4 and 10.1.5 are
fulfilled for a corresponding NR Band for FR1 and FR2, respectively, and

\- the conditions of SSB\_RP and SSB Ês/Iot according to Annex B.2.3 for
a corresponding NR Band are fulfilled.

T~identify\_intra\_NR~: It is the time to identify the target
intra-frequency NR cell and it depends on whether the target NR cell is
known cell or unknown cell and on the FR of the target NR cell. If the
UE is not configured with intra-frequency NR carrier for RRC
re-establishment then T~identify\_intra\_NR~=0; otherwise
T~identify\_intra\_NR~ shall not exceed the values defined in Table
6.2.1.2.1-1.

T~identify\_inter\_NR,i~: It is the time to identify the target
inter-frequency NR cell on inter-frequency carrier *i* configured for
RRC re-establishment and it depends on whether the target NR cell is
known cell or unknown cell and on the FR of the target NR cell.
T~identify\_inter\_NR,i~ shall not exceed the values defined in Table
6.2.1.2.1-2.

T~SMTC~: It is the periodicity of the SMTC occasion configured for the
intra-frequency carrier. If the UE has been provided with higher layer
in TS 38.331 \[2\] signaling of *smtc2*, T~smtc~ follows *smtc1* or
*smtc2* according to the physical cell ID of the target cell.

T~SMTC,i~: It is the periodicity of the SMTC occasion configured for the
inter-frequency carrier *i*. If it is not configured, the UE may assume
that the target SSB periodicity is no larger than 20 ms.

T~SI-NR~: It is the time required for receiving all the relevant system
information according to the reception procedure and the RRC procedure
delay of system information blocks defined in TS 38.331 \[2\] for the
target NR cell.

T~PRACH:~ It is the delay uncertainty in acquiring the first available
PRACH occasion in the target NR cell. T~PRACH~ can be up to the
summation of SSB to PRACH occasion association period and 10 ms. SSB to
PRACH occasion associated period is defined in the table 8.1-1 of TS
38.213 \[3\].

*N~freq~*: It is the total number of NR frequencies to be monitored for
RRC re-establishment; N~freq~ = 1 if the target intra-frequency NR cell
is known, else N~freq~ = 2 and T~identify\_intra\_NR~ = 0 if the target
inter-frequency NR cell is known.

There is no requirement if the target cell does not contain the UE
context.

In the requirement defined in the below tables, the target FR1 cell is
known if it has been meeting the relevant cell identification
requirement during the last 5 seconds otherwise it is unknown.

Table 6.2.1.2.1-1: Time to identify target NR cell for RRC connection
re-establishment to NR intra-frequency cell

  Serving cell                                                                                                                                           FR of target NR   T~identify\_intra\_NR~ \[ms\]   
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------- ------------------------------- ------------------------------
  SSB Ês/Iot (dB)                                                                                                                                        cell              Known NR cell                   Unknown NR cell
  ≥ -8                                                                                                                                                   FR1               MAX (200 ms, 5 x T~SMTC~)       MAX (800 ms, 10 x T~SMTC~)
  ≥ -8                                                                                                                                                   FR2               N/A                             MAX (1000 ms, 80 x T~SMTC~))
  \< -8                                                                                                                                                  FR1               N/A                             800^Note1^
  \< -8                                                                                                                                                  FR2               N/A                             3520^Note1^
  Note 1: The UE is not required to successfully identify a cell on any NR frequency layer when T~SMTC~ \> 20 ms and serving cell SSB Ês/Iot \< -8 dB.                                                     

Table 6.2.1.2.1-2: Time to identify target NR cell for RRC connection
re-establishment to NR inter-frequency cell

  Serving cell SSB Ês/Iot (dB)                                                                                                                             FR of target NR cell   T~identify\_inter\_NR,\ i~ \[ms\]   
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ----------------------------------- -----------------------------------
                                                                                                                                                                                  Known NR cell                       Unknown NR cell
  ≥ -8                                                                                                                                                     FR1                    MAX (200 ms, 6 x T~SMTC,\ i~)       MAX (800 ms, 13 x T~SMTC,\ i~)
  ≥ -8                                                                                                                                                     FR2                    N/A                                 MAX (1000 ms, 104 x T~SMTC,\ i~))
  \< -8                                                                                                                                                    FR1                    N/A                                 800^Note1^
  \< -8                                                                                                                                                    FR2                    N/A                                 4000^Note1^
  Note 1: The UE is not required to successfully identify a cell on any NR frequency layer when T~SMTC,i~ \> 20 ms and serving cell SSB Ês/Iot \< -8 dB.                                                              

### 6.2.1A RRC Re-establishment with CCA

#### 6.2.1A.1 Introduction

This clause contains requirements on the UE regarding RRC connection
re-establishment procedure on the carrier with CCA. RRC connection
re-establishment on the carrier with CCA is initiated when a UE in
RRC\_CONNECTED state on the carrier w/o or with CCA loses RRC connection
due to any of failure cases, including radio link failure, handover
failure, and RRC connection reconfiguration failure. The RRC connection
re-establishment procedure is specified in clause 5.3.7 of TS 38.331
\[2\].

In the requirements of clause 6.2.1A, the term SMTC occasion not
available at the UE refers to when the SMTC contains SSBs configured by
gNB in a cell on a carrier frequency subject to CCA, but the first two
successive candidate SSB positions for the same SSB index within the
discovery burst transmission window are not available at the UE due to
DL CCA failures at gNB during the corresponding RRC re-establishment
period; otherwise the SMTC occasion is considered as available at the
UE.

In the requirements of clause 6.2.1A, the term PRACH occasion
unavailable for transmission refers to when the PRACH occasion is
configured by gNB but not transmitted by the UE during the corresponding
period due to UL CCA failure at the UE; otherwise the PRACH occasion is
considered as available for transmission.

The requirements in this clause are applicable for RRC connection
re-establishment to NR cell on the carrier with CCA.

#### 6.2.1A.2 Requirements

In RRC\_CONNECTED state on the carrier w/o or with CCA the UE shall be
capable of sending *RRCReestablishmentRequest* message within
T~re-establish\_delay\_CCA~ seconds from the moment it detects a loss in
RRC connection. The total RRC connection delay
(T~re-establish\_delay\_CCA~) shall be less than:

$T_{\text{re} - \text{establish}\_\text{delay}\_\text{CCA}} = T_{\text{UE}\_\text{re} - \text{establish}\_\text{delay}\_\text{CCA}} + T_{\text{UL}\_\text{grant}}$

T~UL\_grant~: It is the time required to acquire and process uplink
grant from the target PCell with CCA. The uplink grant is required to
transmit *RRCReestablishmentRequest* message.

The UE re-establishment delay (T~UE\_re-establish\_delay\_CCA~) is
specified in clause 6.2.1A.2.1.

##### 6.2.1A.2.1 UE Re-establishment with CCA delay requirement

The UE re-establishment on the carrier with CCA delay
(T~UE\_re-establish\_delay\_CCA~) is the time between the moments when
any of the conditions requiring RRC re-establishment on the carrier with
CCA as defined in clause 5.3.7 in TS 38.331 \[2\] is detected by the UE
and when the UE sends PRACH to the target PCell on the carrier with CCA
. The UE re-establishment delay requirement
(T~UE\_re-establish\_delay\_CCA~) on the carrier with CCA shall be less
than:

$$T_{UE\_ re - establish\_ delay\_ CCA} = 50\ \text{ms} + T_{identify\_ intra\_ NR\_ CCA} + \sum_{i = 1}^{N_{\text{freq}} - 1}T_{identify\_ inter\_ NR\_ CCA,i} + T_{SI - NR\_ CCA} + T_{PRACH\_ CCA}$$

The intra-frequency target NR cell with CCA shall be considered
detectable if each relevant SSB can satisfy that:

\- SS-RSRP related side conditions given in clause 10.1.2 are fulfilled
for a corresponding NR Band for FR1, and

\- the conditions of SSB\_RP and SSB Ês/Iot according to Annex B.2.3 for
a corresponding NR Band are fulfilled.

The inter-frequency target NR cell on the carrier with CCA shall be
considered detectable when for each relevant SSB:

\- SS-RSRP related side conditions given in clause 10.1.4 are fulfilled
for a corresponding NR Band for FR1, and

\- the conditions of SSB\_RP and SSB Ês/Iot according to Annex B.2.2 for
a corresponding NR Band are fulfilled.

T~identify\_intra\_NR\_CCA~: If the target intra-frequency carrier is
the carrier without CCA, it is the time to identify the target
intra-frequency NR cell which is defined in clause 6.2.1; otherwise it
is the time to identify the target intra-frequency NR cell on the
carrier with CCA and it depends on whether the target NR cell on the
carrier with CCA is known cell or unknown cell and on the frequency
range (FR) of the target NR cell on the carrier with CCA. If the UE is
not configured with intra-frequency NR carrier with CCA for RRC
re-establishment then T~identify\_intra\_NR\_CCA~=0; otherwise
T~identify\_intra\_NR\_CCA~ shall not exceed the values defined in Table
6.2.1A.2.1-1.

T~identify\_inter\_NR\_CCA,i~: If the target inter-frequency carrier is
the carrier without CCA, it is the time to identify the target
inter-frequency NR cell which is defined in clause 6.2.1; otherwise it
is the time to identify the target inter-frequency NR cell on
inter-frequency carrier *i* with CCA configured for RRC re-establishment
and it depends on whether the target NR cell on the inter-frequency
carrier with CCA is known or unknown. T~identify\_inter\_NR\_CCA,i~
shall not exceed the values defined in Table 6.2.1A.2.1-2.

T~SMTC~: It is the periodicity of the SMTC occasion configured for the
intra-frequency carrier. If the UE has been provided with higher layer
in TS 38.331 \[2\] signaling of *smtc2*, T~smtc~ follows *smtc1* or
*smtc2* according to the physical cell ID of the target cell.

T~SMTC,i~: It is the periodicity of the SMTC occasion configured for the
inter-frequency carrier *i*. If it is not configured, the UE may assume
that the target SSB periodicity is not larger than 20 ms.

T~SI-NR\_CCA~: It is the time required for receiving all the relevant
system information according to the reception procedure and the RRC
procedure delay of system information blocks defined in TS 38.331 \[2\]
for the target NR cell on the carrier with CCA.

*Editor's note: The actual value for T~SI-NR\_CCA~ is to be discussed in
the performance part, considering LBT failures and receiver assumptions,
etc.*

T~PRACH\_CCA~ is the delay uncertainty in acquiring the first available
PRACH occasion in the target NR Cell on the carrier with CCA:

T~PRACH\_CCA~ = (1+ **K~3~**)\*T~SSB,RO~ + 10 ms, where:

\- T~SSB,RO~ is the SSB to PRACH occasion association period as defined
inTable 8.1-1 of TS 38.213 \[39\].

\- K~3~ is the number of consecutive SSB to PRACH occasion association
periods during which no PRACH occasion is available for PRACH
transmission due to UL CCA failure. K~3~ = 0 for Type 2C UL channel
access procedure as defined in TS 37.213 \[57\].

*N~freq~*: It is the total number of NR frequencies to be monitored for
RRC re-establishment; N~freq~ = 1 if the target NR cell on the
intra-frequency carrier with CCA is known, else N~freq~ = 2 and
T~identify\_intra\_NR\_CCA~ = 0 if the target NR cell on the
inter-frequency carrier with CCA is known.

There is no requirement if the target cell on the carrier with CCA does
not contain the UE context.

In the requirement defined in the below tables, the target cell on the
carrier with CCA is known if it has been meeting the relevant cell
identification requirement during the last 8 seconds otherwise it is
unknown.

Table 6.2.1A.2.1-1: Time to identify target NR cell for RRC connection
re-establishment to NR intra-frequency cell with CCA

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Serving cell   | Frequency      | T~identify\_i  |                |
|                | range          | ntra\_NR\_CCA~ |                |
|                |                | \[ms\]         |                |
+================+================+================+================+
| SSB Ês/Iot     | (FR) of target | Known NR cell  | Unknown NR     |
| (dB)           | NR cell        |                | cell           |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ≥ -8           | FR1            | MAX (200 ms,   | MAX (800 ms,   |
|                |                | (5+K~1~) x     | (10+ K~1~) x   |
|                |                | T~SMTC~)       | T~SMTC~)       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| \< -8          | FR1            | N/A            | (800+20 x K~1~ |
|                |                |                | )^Note1^       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Note 1: The UE |                |                |                |
| is not         |                |                |                |
| required to    |                |                |                |
| successfully   |                |                |                |
| identify a     |                |                |                |
| cell on any NR |                |                |                |
| frequency      |                |                |                |
| layer with CCA |                |                |                |
| when T~SMTC~   |                |                |                |
| \> 20 ms and   |                |                |                |
| serving cell   |                |                |                |
| SSB Ês/Iot \<  |                |                |                |
| -8 dB.         |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| Note 2: K~1~   |                |                |                |
| is the number  |                |                |                |
| of SMTC        |                |                |                |
| occasions not  |                |                |                |
| available at   |                |                |                |
| the UE due     |                |                |                |
| during RRC     |                |                |                |
| re             |                |                |                |
| -establishment |                |                |                |
| period on the  |                |                |                |
| carrier with   |                |                |                |
| CCA.           |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

Table 6.2.1A.2.1-2: Time to identify target NR cell for RRC connection
re-establishment to NR inter-frequency cell on the carrier with CCA

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Serving cell   | Frequency      | T~i            |                |
| SSB Ês/Iot     | range          | dentify\_inter |                |
| (dB)           |                | \_NR\_CCA,\ i~ |                |
|                |                | \[ms\]         |                |
+================+================+================+================+
|                | (FR) of target | Known NR cell  | Unknown NR     |
|                | NR cell        |                | cell           |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ≥ -8           | FR1            | MAX (200 ms,   | MAX (800 ms,   |
|                |                | (\[6\]+K~2,i~) | (              |
|                |                | x T~SMTC,\ i~) | \[13\]+K~2,i~) |
|                |                |                | x T~SMTC,\ i~) |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| \< -8          | FR1            | N/A            | (800+20 x      |
|                |                |                | K~2,i~)        |
|                |                |                | ^Note1^        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Note 1: The UE |                |                |                |
| is not         |                |                |                |
| required to    |                |                |                |
| successfully   |                |                |                |
| identify a     |                |                |                |
| cell on any NR |                |                |                |
| frequency      |                |                |                |
| layer with CCA |                |                |                |
| when T~SMTC,i~ |                |                |                |
| \> 20 ms and   |                |                |                |
| serving cell   |                |                |                |
| SSB Ês/Iot \<  |                |                |                |
| -8 dB.         |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| Note 2: K~2,i~ |                |                |                |
| is the number  |                |                |                |
| of SMTC        |                |                |                |
| occasions not  |                |                |                |
| available at   |                |                |                |
| the UE during  |                |                |                |
| RRC            |                |                |                |
| re             |                |                |                |
| -establishment |                |                |                |
| period on the  |                |                |                |
| "i" th carrier |                |                |                |
| with CCA,      |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

### 6.2.2 Random access

#### 6.2.2.1 Introduction

This clause contains requirements on the UE regarding random access
procedure. The random access procedure is initiated to establish uplink
time synchronization for a UE which either has not acquired or has lost
its uplink synchronization, or to convey UE's request Other SI, or for
beam failure recovery. The random access is specified in clause 8 of TS
38.213 \[3\] and the control of the RACH transmission is specified in
clause 5.1 of TS 38.321 \[7\]. Two types of procedure are defined for
the random access, the 4-step RA type, and the 2-step RA type \[7\]. The
decision on which type of procedure to adopt is as described in clause
5.1.1 of TS 38.321 \[7\]. The requirements for the 4-step RA type
procedure are described in clause 6.2.2.2, whereas the requirements for
the 2-step RA type procedure are described in the clause 6.2.2.3 of this
specification.

#### 6.2.2.2 Requirements for 4-step RA type

The UE shall select the type of random access at initiation of the
random access procedure based on network configuration, as specified in
clause 5.1.1 in TS 38.321 \[7\].

The UE shall have capability to calculate PRACH transmission power
according to the PRACH power formula defined in clause 7.4 of TS 38.213
\[3\] and apply this power level at the first preamble or additional
preambles. The absolute power applied to the first preamble shall have
an accuracy as specified in Table 6.3.4.2-1 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for
FR1 and in Table 6.3.4.2-1 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for FR2. The relative
power applied to additional preambles shall have an accuracy as
specified in Table 6.3.4.3-1 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for FR1 and clause
6.3.4.3 of TS38.101-2 \[19\] for FR2.

The UE shall indicate a random access problem to upper layers if the
maximum number of preamble transmission counter has been reached for the
random access procedure on PCell or PSCell as specified in clause 5.1.4
in TS 38.321 \[7\].

The requirements in this clause apply for UE in SA operation mode or any
MR-DC operation mode.

##### 6.2.2.2.1 Contention based random access

##### 6.2.2.2.1.1 Correct behaviour when transmitting Random Access Preamble {#correct-behaviour-when-transmitting-random-access-preamble .H6}

With the UE selected SSB with SS-RSRP above *rsrp-ThresholdSSB*, UE
shall have the capability to select a Random Access Preamble randomly
with equal probability from the Random Access Preambles associated with
the selected SSB if the association between Random Access Preambles and
SSB is configured, as specified in clause 5.1.2 in TS 38.321 \[7\].

With the UE selected SSB with SS-RSRP above *rsrp-ThresholdSSB*, UE
shall have the capability to transmit Random Access Preamble on the next
available PRACH occasion from the PRACH occasions corresponding to the
selected SSB permitted by the restrictions given by the
*ra-ssb-OccasionMaskIndex* if configured, if the association between
PRACH occasions and SSBs is configured, and PRACH occasion shall be
randomly selected with equal probability amongst the selected SSB
associated PRACH occasions occurring simultaneously but on different
subcarriers, as specified in clause 5.1.2 in TS 38.321 \[7\].

##### 6.2.2.2.1.2 Correct behaviour when receiving Random Access Response {#correct-behaviour-when-receiving-random-access-response .H6}

The UE may stop monitoring for Random Access Response(s) and shall
transmit the msg3 if the Random Access Response contains a Random Access
Preamble identifier corresponding to the transmitted Random Access
Preamble.

The UE shall again perform the Random Access Resource selection
procedure defined in clause 5.1.2 in TS 38.321 \[7\], and transmit with
the calculated PRACH transmission power when the backoff time expires if
all received Random Access Responses contain Random Access Preamble
identifiers that do not match the transmitted Random Access Preamble.

##### 6.2.2.2.1.3 Correct behaviour when not receiving Random Access Response {#correct-behaviour-when-not-receiving-random-access-response .H6}

The UE shall again perform the Random Access Resource selection
procedure defined in clause 5.1.2 in TS 38.321 \[7\], and transmit with
the calculated PRACH transmission power when the backoff time expires if
no Random Access Response is received within the RA Response window
defined in clause 5.1.4 in TS 38.321 \[7\].

##### 6.2.2.2.1.4 Correct behaviour when receiving an UL grant for msg3 retransmission {#correct-behaviour-when-receiving-an-ul-grant-for-msg3-retransmission .H6}

The UE shall re-transmit the msg3 upon the reception of anUL grant for
msg3 retransmission.

##### 6.2.2.2.1.5 SA: Correct behaviour when receiving a message over Temporary C-RNTI {#sa-correct-behaviour-when-receiving-a-message-over-temporary-c-rnti .H6}

The UE shall send ACK if the Contention Resolution is successful.

The UE shall again perform the Random Access Resource selection
procedure defined in clause 5.1.2 in TS 38.321 \[7\], and transmit with
the calculated PRACH transmission power when the backoff time expires
unless the received message includes a UE Contention Resolution Identity
MAC control element and the UE Contention Resolution Identity included
in the MAC control element matches the CCCH SDU transmitted in the
uplink message.

##### 6.2.2.2.1.6 Correct behaviour when contention Resolution timer expires {#correct-behaviour-when-contention-resolution-timer-expires .H6}

The UE shall re-select a preamble and transmit with the calculated PRACH
transmission power when the backoff time expires if the Contention
Resolution Timer expires.

##### 6.2.2.2.2 Non-Contention based random access

##### 6.2.2.2.2.1 Correct behaviour when transmitting Random Access Preamble {#correct-behaviour-when-transmitting-random-access-preamble-1 .H6}

If the contention-free Random Access Resources and the contention-free
PRACH occasions associated with SSBs is configured, with the UE selected
SSB with SS-RSRP above *rsrp-ThresholdSSB* amongst the associated SSBs,
UE shall have the capability to select the Random Access Preamble
corresponding to the selected SSB, and to transmit Random Access
Preamble on the next available PRACH occasion from the PRACH occasions
corresponding to the selected SSB permitted by the restrictions given by
the *ra-ssb-OccasionMaskIndex* if configured, and PRACH occasion shall
be randomly selected with equal probability amongst the selected SSB
associated PRACH occasions occurring simultaneously but on different
subcarriers, as specified in clause 5.1.2 in TS 38.321 \[7\].

If the contention-free Random Access Resources and the contention-free
PRACH occasions associated with CSI-RSs is configured, with the UE
selected CSI-RS with CSI-RSRP above *rsrp-ThresholdCSI-RS* amongst the
associated CSI-RSs, UE shall have the capability to select the Random
Access Preamble corresponding to the selected CSI-RS, and to transmit
Random Access Preamble on the next available PRACH occasion from the
PRACH occasions in *ra-OccasionList* corresponding to the selected
CSI-RS, and PRACH occasion shall be randomly selected with equal
probability amongst the selected CSI-RS associated PRACH occasions
occurring simultaneously but on different subcarriers, as specified in
clause 5.1.2 in TS 38.321 \[7\].

If the random access procedure is initialized for beam failure recovery
and if the contention-free Random Access Resources and the
contention-free PRACH occasions for beam failure recovery request
associated with any of the SSBs and/or CSI-RSs is configured, UE shall
have the capability to select the Random Access Preamble corresponding
to the selected SSB with SS-RSRP above *rsrp-ThresholdSSB* amongst the
associated SSBs or the selected CSI-RS with CSI-RSRP above
*rsrp-ThresholdCSI-RS* amongst the associated CSI-RSs, and to transmit
Random Access Preamble on the next available PRACH occasion from the
PRACH occasions corresponding to the selected SSB permitted by the
restrictions given by the *ra-ssb-OccasionMaskIndex* if configured, or
from the PRACH occasions in *ra-OccasionList* corresponding to the
selected CSI-RS, and PRACH occasion shall be randomly selected with
equal probability amongst the selected SSB assocated PRACH occasions or
the selected CSI-RS associated PRACH occasions occurring simultaneously
but on different subcarriers, as specified in clause 5.1.2 in
TS 38.321 \[7\].

##### 6.2.2.2.2.2 Correct behaviour when receiving Random Access Response {#correct-behaviour-when-receiving-random-access-response-1 .H6}

The UE may stop monitoring for Random Access Response(s), if the Random
Access Response contains a Random Access Preamble identifier
corresponding to the transmitted Random Access Preamble, unless the
random access procedure is initialized for Other SI request from UE.

The UE may stop monitoring for Random Access Response(s) and shall
monitor the Other SI transmission if the Random Access Response only
contains a Random Access Preamble identifier which is corresponding to
the transmitted Random Access Preamble and the random access procedure
is initialized for SI request from UE, as specified in clause 5.1.4 in
TS 38.321 \[7\].

The UE may stop monitoring for Random Access Response(s), if the
contention-free Random Access Preamble for beam failure recovery request
was transmitted and if the PDCCH addressed to UE's C-RNTI is received,
as specified in clause 5.1.4 in TS 38.321 \[7\].

The UE shall again perform the Random Access Resource selection
procedure defined in clause 5.1.2 in TS 38.321 \[7\] for the next
available PRACH occasion, and transmit the preamble with the calculated
PRACH transmission power if all received Random Access Responses contain
Random Access Preamble identifiers that do not match the transmitted
Random Access Preamble.

##### 6.2.2.2.2.3 Correct behaviour when not receiving Random Access Response {#correct-behaviour-when-not-receiving-random-access-response-1 .H6}

The UE shall again perform the Random Access Resource selection
procedure defined in clause 5.1.2 in TS 38.321 \[7\] for the next
available PRACH occasion, and transmit the preamble with the calculated
PRACH transmission power, if no Random Access Response is received
within the RA Response window configured in *RACH-ConfigCommon* or if no
PDCCH addressed to UE's C-RNTI is received within the RA Response window
configured in *BeamFailureRecoveryConfig*, as defined in clause 5.1.4 in
TS 38.321 \[7\].

##### 6.2.2.2.3 UE behaviour when configured with supplementary UL

In addition to the requirements defined in clause 6.2.2.2.1 and
6.2.2.2.2, a UE configured with supplementary UL carrier shall use RACH
configuration for the supplementary UL carrier contained in RMSI and RRC
dedicated signalling. If the cell for the random access procedure is
configured with supplementary UL, the UE shall transmit or re-transmit
PRACH preamble on the supplementary UL carrier if the SS-RSRP measured
by the UE on the DL carrier is lower than the *rsrp-ThresholdSSB-SUL* as
defined in TS 38.331 \[2\].

#### 6.2.2.3 Requirements for 2-step RA type

The UE shall select the type of random access at initiation of the
random access procedure based on network configuration, as specified in
clause 5.1.1 in TS 38.321 \[7\].

The UE shall have capability to calculate MsgA PRACH transmission power
according to the PRACH power formula defined in clause 7.4 of TS 38.213
\[3\] and the MsgA PUSCH power formula of clause 7.1.1 of TS 38.213
\[3\] and apply this power level at the first MsgA or additional MsgA
repetitions. The absolute power applied to the first preamble shall have
an accuracy as specified in Table 6.3.4.2-1 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for
frequency range 1 and in Table 6.3.4.2-1 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for
frequency range 2. The relative power applied to additional preambles
shall have an accuracy as specified in Table 6.3.4.3-1 of TS 38.101-1
\[18\] for frequency range 1 and clause 6.3.4.3 of TS38.101-2 \[19\] for
frequency range 2.

The UE shall switch to 4-step RA type procedure if the MsgA transmission
counter has exceeded *msgA-TransMax*, if configured, as specified in
clause 5.1.4a of TS 38.321 \[7\]. The UE shall indicate a Random Access
problem to upper layers if the maximum number of preamble transmission
counter has been reached for the random access procedure on PCell or
PSCell as specified in clause 5.1.4a in TS 38.321 \[7\].

The requirements in this clause apply for UE in SA operation mode or any
MR-DC operation mode.

##### 6.2.2.3.1 Contention based random access

##### 6.2.2.3.1.1 Correct behaviour when transmitting MsgA {#correct-behaviour-when-transmitting-msga .H6}

With the UE selected SSB with SS-RSRP above *msgA-RSRP-ThresholdSSB*,
the UE shall have the capability to select a Random Access Preamble
randomly with equal probability from the Random Access Preambles
associated with the selected SSB if the association between Random
Access Preambles and SS blocks is configured, as specified in
clause 5.1.2a in TS 38.321 \[7\].

With the UE selected SSB with SS-RSRP above *msgA-RSRP-ThresholdSSB*, UE
shall have the capability to transmit MsgA PRACH on the next available
PRACH occasion from the PRACH occasions corresponding to the selected
SSB permitted by the restrictions given first by the
*msgA-SSB-SharedRO-MaskIndex* if configured, or next by the
*ra-ssb-OccasionMaskIndex* if configured, if the association between
PRACH occasions and SSBs is configured.

The PRACH preamble and PRACH occasion shall be randomly selected with
equal probability amongst the selected SSB associated PRACH occasions
occurring simultaneously but on different subcarriers, as specified in
clause 5.1.2a in TS 38.321 \[7\].

In association with the MsgA PRACH, the UE should have the capability to
transmit MsgA PUSCH on the corresponding PUSCH occasion associated with
a DMRS resource, which is mapped from the MsgA PRACH ocasion, and
preamble index as defined in clause 8.1A in TS 38.213 \[3\].

##### 6.2.2.3.1.2 Correct behaviour when receiving MsgB {#correct-behaviour-when-receiving-msgb .H6}

The UE shall stop monitoring for MsgB, when the UE has successfully
received the PDCCH addressed to UE as specified in clause 8.2A in TS
38.213 \[3\] containing a successRAR MAC subPDU or a fallbackRAR MAC
subPDU as described in clause 5.1.4a in TS 38.321 \[7\].

The UE shall send ACK if Success RAR is received in MsgB and the
Contention Resolution is successful, as defined in clause 5.1.4a in TS
38.321 \[7\].

If MsgB contains a fallbackRAR MAC subPDU the UE shall fallback to the
4-step RA type by transmitting the msg3 containing the payload of MsgA
PUSCH and monitor contention resolution as described in clause 8.2A in
TS 38.213 \[3\].

The UE shall again perform the Random Access Resource selection
procedure defined in clause 5.1.2a in TS 38.321 \[7\], and transmit with
the calculated MsgA PRACH and MsgA PUSCH transmission power when the
backoff time expires unless the Random Access Response reception is
considered as successful, as defined in clause 5.1.4a in TS 38.321
\[7\].

##### 6.2.2.3.1.3 Correct behaviour when not receiving MsgB {#correct-behaviour-when-not-receiving-msgb .H6}

The UE shall again perform the Random Access Resource selection
procedure defined in clause 5.1.2a in TS 38.321 \[7\], and transmit with
the calculated MsgA PRACH and MsgA PUSCH transmission power when the
backoff time expires unless the Random Access Response reception is
considered as successful, as defined in clause 5.1.4a in TS 38.321
\[7\].

##### 6.2.2.3.2 Non-Contention based random access

##### 6.2.2.3.2.1 Correct behaviour when transmitting MsgA {#correct-behaviour-when-transmitting-msga-1 .H6}

If the contention-free Random Access Resources and the contention-free
PRACH occasions associated with SSBs is configured, with the UE selected
SSB with SS-RSRP above *msgA-RSRP-ThresholdSSB* amongst the associated
SSBs, UE shall have the capability to select the Random Access Preamble
corresponding to the selected SSB, and to transmit Random Access
Preamble on the next available PRACH occasion from the PRACH occasions
corresponding to the selected SSB permitted by the restrictions given
first by the *msgA-SSB-SharedRO-MaskIndex* if configured, or next by the
*ra-ssb-OccasionMaskIndex* if configured, and PRACH occasion shall be
randomly selected with equal probability amongst the selected SSB
associated PRACH occasions occurring simultaneously but on different
subcarriers, as specified in clause 5.1.2a in TS 38.321 \[7\].

In association with the MsgA PRACH, the UE should have the capability to
transmit MsgA PUSCH on the corresponding PUSCH occasion associated with
a DMRS resource, which is mapped from the MsgA PRACH ocasion, and
preamble index as defined in clause 8.1A in TS 38.213 \[3\].

##### 6.2.2.3.2.2 Correct behaviour when receiving MsgB {#correct-behaviour-when-receiving-msgb-1 .H6}

The UE may stop monitoring for MsgB, when the UE has successfully
received the PDCCH addressed to UE as specified in clause 8.2A in TS
38.213 \[3\] containing a successRAR MAC subPDU or a fallbackRAR MAC
subPDU as described in clause 5.1.4a in TS 38.321 \[7\].

If MsgB contains a fallbackRAR MAC subPDU the UE shall fallback to the
4-step RA type by transmitting the msg3 containing the payload of MsgA
PUSCH as described in clause 8.2A in TS 38.213 \[3\].

The UE shall again perform the Random Access Resource selection
procedure defined in clause 5.1.2a in TS 38.321 \[7\] for the next
available PRACH occasion, and transmit the preamble with the calculated
MsgA PRACH and MsgA PUSCH transmission power if all received MsgBs
contain Random Access Preamble identifiers that do not match the
transmitted Random Access Preamble.

##### 6.2.2.3.2.3 Correct behaviour when not receiving MsgB {#correct-behaviour-when-not-receiving-msgb-1 .H6}

The UE shall again perform the Random Access Resource selection
procedure defined in clause 5.1.2a in TS 38.321 \[7\] for the next
available PRACH occasion, and transmit MsgA with the calculated MsgA
PRACH and MsgA PUSCH transmission power, if no MsgB is received within
the MsgB Response window configured in *RACH-ConfigGenericTwoStepRA* and
the Random Access Response Reception has not been considered as
successful as defined in clause 5.1.4a in TS 38.321 \[7\].

##### 6.2.2.3.3 UE behaviour when configured with supplementary UL

In addition to the requirements defined in clause 6.2.2.3.1 and
6.2.2.3.2, a UE configured with supplementary UL carrier shall use RACH
configuration for the supplementary UL carrier contained in RMSI and RRC
dedicated signalling. If the cell for the random access procedure is
configured with supplementary UL, the UE shall transmit or re-transmit
PRACH preamble on the supplementary UL carrier if the SS-RSRP measured
by the UE on the DL carrier is lower than the *rsrp-ThresholdSSB-SUL* as
defined in TS 38.321 \[7\].

### 6.2.2A Random access when CCA is used on target frequency 

#### 6.2.2A.1 Introduction

This clause contains requirements on the UE regarding random access
procedure when CCA is used on the target frequency. The random access
procedure is initiated to establish uplink time synchronization for a UE
which either has not acquired or has lost its uplink synchronization, or
to convey UE's request Other SI, or for beam failure recovery. The
random access is specified in clause 8 of TS 38.213 \[3\] and the
control of the RACH transmission is specified in clause 5.1 of
TS 38.321 \[7\]. Two types of procedure are defined for the random
access, the 4-step RA type, and the 2-step RA type \[7\]. The decision
on which type of procedure to adopt is as described in clause 5.1.1 of
TS 38.321 \[7\]. The requirements for the 4-step RA type procedure are
described in clause 6.2.2A.2, whereas the requirements for the 2-step RA
type procedure are described in the clause 6.2.2A.3 of this
specification.

#### 6.2.2A.2 Requirements for 4-step RA type

The UE shall select the type of random access at initiation of the
random access procedure based on network configuration, as specified in
clause 5.1.1 in TS 38.321 \[7\].

The UE shall have capability to calculate PRACH transmission power
according to the PRACH power formula defined in clause 7.4 of TS 38.213
\[3\] and apply this power level at the first preamble or additional
preambles. The absolute power applied to the first preamble shall have
an accuracy as specified in Table 6.3.4.2-1 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\]. The
relative power applied to additional preambles shall have an accuracy as
specified in Table 6.3.4.3-1 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\].

The UE shall indicate a random access problem to upper layers if the
maximum number of preamble transmission counter has been reached for the
random access procedure on PCell or PSCell as specified in clause 5.1.4
in TS 38.321 \[7\].

The requirements in this clause apply for UE operating in a carrier
frequency with CCA in SA operation mode or any MR-DC operation mode, in
a carrier frequency with CCA.

##### 6.2.2A.2.1 Contention based random access

##### 6.2.2A.2.1.1 Correct behaviour when transmitting Random Access Preamble {#a.2.1.1-correct-behaviour-when-transmitting-random-access-preamble .H6}

With the UE selected SSB with SS-RSRP above *rsrp-ThresholdSSB*, UE
shall have the capability to select a Random Access Preamble randomly
with equal probability from the Random Access Preambles associated with
the selected SSB if the association between Random Access Preambles and
SSB is configured, as specified in clause 5.1.2 in TS 38.321 \[7\].

If the UL CCA is successful on the next available PRACH occasion, with
the UE selected SSB with SS-RSRP above *rsrp-ThresholdSSB*, UE shall
transmit Random Access Preamble on the next available PRACH occasion
from the PRACH occasions corresponding to the selected SSB permitted by
the restrictions given by the *ra-ssb-OccasionMaskIndex* if configured,
if the association between PRACH occasions and SSBs is configured, and
PRACH occasion shall be randomly selected with equal probability amongst
the selected SSB associated PRACH occasions occurring simultaneously but
on different subcarriers, as specified in clause 5.1.2 in
TS 38.321 \[7\].

If UE is configured *lbt-FailureRecoveryConfig* and is capable of
*ul-LBT-FailureDetectionRecovery* \[2\] then upon detecting uplink CCA
failure during the random access procedure for random access preamble
transmission, as outlined in Clause 5.21.2 of TS 38.321 \[7\], the UE
shall perform the Random Access Resource selection procedure again, as
specified in clause 5.1.3 in TS 38.321 \[7\].

If UE is not configured *lbt-FailureRecoveryConfig* or is not capable of
*ul-LBT-FailureDetectionRecovery* \[2\] then upon detecting uplink CCA
failure during the random access procedure for random access preamble
transmission, as outlined in Clause 5.21.2 of TS 38.321 \[7\], the UE
shall increment PREAMBLE\_TRANSMISSION\_COUNTER by 1. The UE shall again
perform the Random Access Resource selection procedure if
PREAMBLE\_TRANSMISSION\_COUNTER \< *preambleTransMax* + 1, as specified
in clause 5.1.3 in TS 38.321 \[7\].

##### 6.2.2A.2.1.2 Correct behaviour when receiving Random Access Response {#a.2.1.2-correct-behaviour-when-receiving-random-access-response .H6}

The UE may stop monitoring for Random Access Response(s) and shall
transmit the msg3 if the Random Access Response contains a Random Access
Preamble identifier corresponding to the transmitted Random Access
Preamble.

The UE shall again perform the Random Access Resource selection
procedure defined in clause 5.1.2 in TS 38.321 \[7\], and transmit with
the calculated PRACH transmission power when the backoff time expires if
all received Random Access Responses contain Random Access Preamble
identifiers that do not match the transmitted Random Access Preamble.

##### 6.2.2A.2.1.3 Correct behaviour when not receiving Random Access Response {#a.2.1.3-correct-behaviour-when-not-receiving-random-access-response .H6}

The UE shall again perform the Random Access Resource selection
procedure defined in clause 5.1.2 in TS 38.321 \[7\], if the UL CCA is
successful, and transmit with the calculated PRACH transmission power
when the backoff time expires if no Random Access Response is received
within the RA Response window defined in clause 5.1.4 in TS 38.321
\[7\].

##### 6.2.2A.2.1.4 Correct behaviour when receiving an UL grant for msg3 retransmission {#a.2.1.4-correct-behaviour-when-receiving-an-ul-grant-for-msg3-retransmission .H6}

The UE shall re-transmit the msg3 upon the reception of an UL grant for
msg3 retransmission, if the UL CCA is successful,

##### 6.2.2A.2.1.5 Correct behaviour when receiving a message over Temporary C-RNTI {#a.2.1.5-correct-behaviour-when-receiving-a-message-over-temporary-c-rnti .H6}

If the UL CCA is successful, The UE shall send ACK if the Contention
Resolution is successful.

The UE shall again perform the Random Access Resource selection
procedure defined in clause 5.1.2 in TS 38.321 \[7\], and transmit with
the calculated PRACH transmission power when the backoff time expires
and the UL CCA is successful, unless the received message includes a UE
Contention Resolution Identity MAC control element and the UE Contention
Resolution Identity included in the MAC control element matches the CCCH
SDU transmitted in the uplink message.

##### 6.2.2A.2.1.6 Correct behaviour when contention Resolution timer expires {#a.2.1.6-correct-behaviour-when-contention-resolution-timer-expires .H6}

The UE shall re-select a preamble and transmit with the calculated PRACH
transmission power when the backoff time expires if the Contention
Resolution Timer expires.

##### 6.2.2A.2.2 Non-Contention based random access

##### 6.2.2A.2.2.1 Correct behaviour when transmitting Random Access Preamble {#a.2.2.1-correct-behaviour-when-transmitting-random-access-preamble .H6}

If the UL CCA is successful on the next available PRACH occasion and if
the contention-free Random Access Resources and the contention-free
PRACH occasions associated with SSBs is configured, with the UE selected
SSB with SS-RSRP above *rsrp-ThresholdSSB* amongst the associated SSBs,
UE shall have the capability to select the Random Access Preamble
corresponding to the selected SSB, and to transmit Random Access
Preamble on the next available PRACH occasion from the PRACH occasions
corresponding to the selected SSB permitted by the restrictions given by
the *ra-ssb-OccasionMaskIndex* if configured, and PRACH occasion shall
be randomly selected with equal probability amongst the selected SSB
associated PRACH occasions occurring simultaneously but on different
subcarriers, as specified in clause 5.1.2 in TS 38.321 \[7\].

If the UL CCA is successful, and if the random access procedure is
initialized for beam failure recovery and if the contention-free Random
Access Resources and the contention-free PRACH occasions for beam
failure recovery request associated with SSBs configured, UE shall have
the capability to select the Random Access Preamble corresponding to the
selected SSB with SS-RSRP above *rsrp-ThresholdSSB* amongst the
associated SSBs, and to transmit Random Access Preamble on the next
available PRACH occasion from the PRACH occasions corresponding to the
selected SSB permitted by the restrictions given by the
*ra-ssb-OccasionMaskIndex* if configured, and PRACH occasion shall be
randomly selected with equal probability amongst the selected SSB
associated PRACH occasions occurring simultaneously but on different
subcarriers, as specified in clause 5.1.2 in TS 38.321 \[7\].

If UE is configured *lbt-FailureRecoveryConfig* and is capable of
*ul-LBT-FailureDetectionRecovery* \[2\] then upon detecting uplink CCA
failure during the random access procedure for random access preamble
transmission, as outlined in Clause 5.21.2 of TS 38.321 \[7\], the UE
shall perform the Random Access Resource selection procedure again, as
specified in clause 5.1.3 in TS 38.321 \[7\].

If UE is not configured *lbt-FailureRecoveryConfig* or is not capable of
*ul-LBT-FailureDetectionRecovery* \[2\] then upon detecting uplink CCA
failure during the random access procedure for random access preamble
transmission, as outlined in Clause 5.21.2 of TS 38.321 \[7\], the UE
shall increment PREAMBLE\_TRANSMISSION\_COUNTER by 1. The UE shall again
perform the Random Access Resource selection procedure if
PREAMBLE\_TRANSMISSION\_COUNTER \< *preambleTransMax* + 1, as specified
in clause 5.1.3 in TS 38.321 \[7\].

##### 6.2.2A.2.2.2 Correct behaviour when receiving Random Access Response {#a.2.2.2-correct-behaviour-when-receiving-random-access-response .H6}

The UE may stop monitoring for Random Access Response(s), if the Random
Access Response contains a Random Access Preamble identifier
corresponding to the transmitted Random Access Preamble, unless the
random access procedure is initialized for Other SI request from UE.

The UE may stop monitoring for Random Access Response(s) and shall
monitor the Other SI transmission if the Random Access Response only
contains a Random Access Preamble identifier which is corresponding to
the transmitted Random Access Preamble and the random access procedure
is initialized for SI request from UE, as specified in clause 5.1.4 in
TS 38.321 \[7\].

The UE may stop monitoring for Random Access Response(s), if the
contention-free Random Access Preamble for beam failure recovery request
was transmitted and if the PDCCH addressed to UE's C-RNTI is received,
as specified in clause 5.1.4 in TS 38.321 \[7\].

The UE shall again perform the Random Access Resource selection
procedure defined in clause 5.1.2 in TS 38.321 \[7\] for the next
available PRACH occasion if the UL CCA is successful, and transmit the
preamble with the calculated PRACH transmission power if all received
Random Access Responses contain Random Access Preamble identifiers that
do not match the transmitted Random Access Preamble.

##### 6.2.2A.2.2.3 Correct behaviour when not receiving Random Access Response {#a.2.2.3-correct-behaviour-when-not-receiving-random-access-response .H6}

The UE shall again perform the Random Access Resource selection
procedure defined in clause 5.1.2 in TS 38.321 \[7\] for the next
available PRACH occasion if the UL CCA is successful, and transmit the
preamble with the calculated PRACH transmission power, if no Random
Access Response is received within the RA Response window configured in
*RACH-ConfigCommon* or if no PDCCH addressed to UE's C-RNTI is received
within the RA Response window configured in *BeamFailureRecoveryConfig*,
as defined in clause 5.1.4 in TS 38.321 \[7\].

#### 6.2.2A.3 Requirements for 2-step RA type

The UE shall select the type of random access at initiation of the
random access procedure based on network configuration, as specified in
clause 5.1.1 in TS 38.321 \[7\].

The UE shall have capability to calculate MsgA PRACH transmission power
according to the PRACH power formula defined in clause 7.4 of TS 38.213
\[3\] and the MsgA PUSCH power formula of clause 7.1.1 of TS 38.213
\[3\] and apply this power level at the first MsgA or additional MsgA
repetitions. The absolute power applied to the first preamble shall have
an accuracy as specified in Table 6.3.4.2-1 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\]. The
relative power applied to additional preambles shall have an accuracy as
specified in Table 6.3.4.3-1 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\].

The UE shall switch to 4-step RA type procedure if the MsgA transmission
counter has exceeded *msgA-TransMax*, if configured, as specified in
clause 5.1.4a of TS 38.321 \[7\]. The UE shall indicate a Random Access
problem to upper layers if the maximum number of preamble transmission
counter has been reached for the random access procedure on PCell or
PSCell as specified in clause 5.1.4a in TS 38.321 \[7\].

The requirements in this clause apply for UE operating in a carrier
frequency with CCA in SA operation mode or any MR-DC operation mode, in
a carrier frequency with CCA.

##### 6.2.2A.3.1 Contention based random access

##### 6.2.2A.3.1.1 Correct behaviour when transmitting MsgA {#a.3.1.1-correct-behaviour-when-transmitting-msga .H6}

With the UE selected SSB with SS-RSRP above *msgA-RSRP-ThresholdSSB*,
the UE shall have the capability to select a Random Access Preamble
randomly with equal probability from the Random Access Preambles
associated with the selected SSB if the association between Random
Access Preambles and SS blocks is configured, as specified in
clause 5.1.2a in TS 38.321 \[7\].

If the UL CCA is successful on the next available PRACH occasion, with
the UE selected SSB with SS-RSRP above *msgA-RSRP-ThresholdSSB*, UE
shall have the capability to transmit MsgA PRACH on the next available
PRACH occasion from the PRACH occasions corresponding to the selected
SSB permitted by the restrictions given first by the
*msgA-SSB-SharedRO-MaskIndex* if configured, or next by the
*ra-ssb-OccasionMaskIndex* if configured, if the association between
PRACH occasions and SSBs is configured.

The PRACH preamble and PRACH occasion shall be randomly selected with
equal probability amongst the selected SSB associated PRACH occasions
occurring simultaneously but on different subcarriers, as specified in
clause 5.1.2a in TS 38.321 \[7\].

In association with the MsgA PRACH, if the UL CCA is successful, the UE
should have the capability to transmit MsgA PUSCH on the corresponding
PUSCH occasion associated with a DMRS resource, which is mapped from the
MsgA PRACH occasion, and preamble index as defined in clause 8.1A in TS
38.213 \[3\].

If UE is configured *lbt-FailureRecoveryConfig* and is capable of
*ul-LBT-FailureDetectionRecovery* \[2\] then upon detecting uplink CCA
failure during the random access procedure for MsgA transmission, as
outlined in Clause 5.21.2 of TS 38.321 \[7\], the UE shall cancel the
transmission of the MsgA payload on the associated PUSCH resource and
perform the Random Access Resource selection procedure, as specified in
clause 5.1.3a in TS 38.321 \[7\].

If UE is not configured *lbt-FailureRecoveryConfig* or is not capable of
*ul-LBT-FailureDetectionRecovery* \[2\] then upon detecting uplink CCA
failure during the random access procedure for MsgA transmission, as
outlined in Clause 5.21.2 of TS 38.321 \[7\], the UE shall cancel the
transmission of the MsgA payload on the associated PUSCH resource and
increment PREAMBLE\_TRANSMISSION\_COUNTER by 1. The UE shall again
perform the Random Access Resource selection procedure if
PREAMBLE\_TRANSMISSION\_COUNTER \< *preambleTransMax* + 1, as specified
in clause 5.1.3a in TS 38.321 \[7\]. If the Random Access Procedure is
not complete and the UE is configured with *msgA-TransMax* then, as
specified in clause 5.1.3a in TS 38.321 \[7\], the UE shall perform the
Random Access Resource selection procedure with 4-step RA type provided
that PREAMBLE\_TRANSMISSION\_COUNTER = *msgA-TransMax* + 1.

##### 6.2.2A.3.1.2 Correct behaviour when receiving MsgB {#a.3.1.2-correct-behaviour-when-receiving-msgb .H6}

The UE shall stop monitoring for MsgB, when the UE has successfully
received the PDCCH addressed to UE as specified in clause 8.2A in TS
38.213 \[3\] containing a successRAR MAC subPDU or a fallbackRAR MAC
subPDU as described in clause 5.1.4a in TS 38.321 \[7\].

If the UL CCA is successful, the UE shall send ACK if Success RAR is
received in MsgB and the Contention Resolution is successful, as defined
in clause 5.1.4a in TS 38.321 \[7\].

If MsgB contains a fallbackRAR MAC subPDU the UE shall fallback to the
4-step RA type by transmitting the msg3 containing the payload of MsgA
PUSCH if the UL CCA is successful, and monitor contention resolution as
described in clause 8.2A in TS 38.213 \[3\].

The UE shall again perform the Random Access Resource selection
procedure defined in clause 5.1.2a in TS 38.321 \[7\], and transmit with
the calculated MsgA PRACH and MsgA PUSCH transmission power, if the UL
CCA is successful on the next available PRACH occasion, when the backoff
time expires unless the Random Access Response reception is considered
as successful, as defined in clause 5.1.4a in TS 38.321 \[7\].

##### 6.2.2A.3.1.3 Correct behaviour when not receiving MsgB {#a.3.1.3-correct-behaviour-when-not-receiving-msgb .H6}

The UE shall again perform the Random Access Resource selection
procedure defined in clause 5.1.2a in TS 38.321 \[7\], and if the UL CCA
is successful, transmit with the calculated MsgA PRACH and MsgA PUSCH
transmission power if the UL CCA is successful on the next available
PRACH occasion when the backoff time expires unless the Random Access
Response reception is considered as successful, as defined in clause
5.1.4a in TS 38.321 \[7\].

##### 6.2.2A.3.2 Non-Contention based random access

##### 6.2.2A.3.2.1 Correct behaviour when transmitting MsgA {#a.3.2.1-correct-behaviour-when-transmitting-msga .H6}

If the UL CCA is successful, if the contention-free Random Access
Resources and the contention-free PRACH occasions associated with SSBs
is configured, with the UE selected SSB with SS-RSRP above
*msgA-RSRP-ThresholdSSB* amongst the associated SSBs, UE shall have the
capability to select the Random Access Preamble corresponding to the
selected SSB, and to transmit Random Access Preamble on the next
available PRACH occasion from the PRACH occasions corresponding to the
selected SSB permitted by the restrictions given first by the
*msgA-SSB-SharedRO-MaskIndex* if configured, or next by the
*ra-ssb-OccasionMaskIndex* if configured, and PRACH occasion shall be
randomly selected with equal probability amongst the selected SSB
associated PRACH occasions occurring simultaneously but on different
subcarriers, as specified in clause 5.1.2a in TS 38.321 \[7\].

In association with the MsgA PRACH, the UE should have the capability to
transmit MsgA PUSCH, if the UL CCA is successful, on the corresponding
PUSCH occasion associated with a DMRS resource, which is mapped from the
MsgA PRACH occasion, and preamble index as defined in clause 8.1A in TS
38.213 \[3\].

If UE is configured *lbt-FailureRecoveryConfig* and is capable of
*ul-LBT-FailureDetectionRecovery* \[2\] then upon detecting uplink CCA
failure during the random access procedure for MsgA transmission, as
outlined in Clause 5.21.2 of TS 38.321 \[7\], the UE shall have cancel
the transmission of the MsgA payload on the associated PUSCH resource
and perform the Random Access Resource selection procedure, as specified
in clause 5.1.3a in TS 38.321 \[7\].

If UE is not configured *lbt-FailureRecoveryConfig* or is not capable of
*ul-LBT-FailureDetectionRecovery* \[2\] then upon detecting uplink CCA
failure during the random access procedure for MsgA transmission, as
outlined in Clause 5.21.2 of TS 38.321 \[7\], the UE shall cancel the
transmission of the MsgA payload on the associated PUSCH resource and
increment PREAMBLE\_TRANSMISSION\_COUNTER by 1. The UE shall again
perform the Random Access Resource selection procedure if
PREAMBLE\_TRANSMISSION\_COUNTER \< *preambleTransMax* + 1, as specified
in clause 5.1.3a in TS 38.321 \[7\]. If the Random Access Procedure is
not complete and the UE is configured with *msgA-TransMax* then, as
specified in clause 5.1.3a in TS 38.321 \[7\], the UE shall perform the
Random Access Resource selection procedure with 4-step RA type provided
that PREAMBLE\_TRANSMISSION\_COUNTER = *msgA-TransMax* + 1.

##### 6.2.2A.3.2.2 Correct behaviour when receiving MsgB {#a.3.2.2-correct-behaviour-when-receiving-msgb .H6}

The UE may stop monitoring for MsgB, when the UE has successfully
received the PDCCH addressed to UE as specified in clause 8.2A in TS
38.213 \[3\] containing a successRAR MAC subPDU or a fallbackRAR MAC
subPDU as described in clause 5.1.4a in TS 38.321 \[7\].

If MsgB contains a fallbackRAR MAC subPDU the UE shall fallback to the
4-step RA type by transmitting the msg3 containing the payload of MsgA
PUSCH if the UL CCA is successful, as described in clause 8.2A in TS
38.213 \[3\].

The UE shall again perform the Random Access Resource selection
procedure defined in clause 5.1.2a in TS 38.321 \[7\] for the next
available PRACH occasion, and transmit the preamble with the calculated
MsgA PRACH and MsgA PUSCH transmission power if the UL CCA is
successful, if all received MsgBs contain Random Access Preamble
identifiers that do not match the transmitted Random Access Preamble.

##### 6.2.2A.3.2.3 Correct behaviour when not receiving MsgB {#a.3.2.3-correct-behaviour-when-not-receiving-msgb .H6}

The UE shall again perform the Random Access Resource selection
procedure defined in clause 5.1.2a in TS 38.321 \[7\] for the next
available PRACH occasion, and transmit MsgA with the calculated MsgA
PRACH and MsgA PUSCH transmission power if the UL CCA is successful on
the next available PRACH occasion, if no MsgB is received within the
MsgB Response window configured in *RACH-ConfigGenericTwoStepRA* and the
Random Access Response Reception has not been considered as successful
as defined in clause 5.1.4a in TS 38.321 \[7\].

### 6.2.3 SA: RRC Connection Release with Redirection

#### 6.2.3.1 Introduction

This clause contains requirements on the UE regarding RRC connection
release with redirection procedure. RRC connection release with
redirection is initiated by the *RRCRelease* message with redirection to
E-UTRAN or NR from NR specified in TS 38.331 \[2\]. The RRC connection
release with redirection procedure is specified in clause 5.3.8 of TS
38.331 \[2\].

In the requirements of clause 6.2.3.2, the term SMTC occasion not
available at the UE refers to when the SMTC contains SSBs configured by
gNB in a cell on a carrier frequency subject to CCA, but the first two
successive candidate SSB positions for the same SSB index within the
discovery burst transmission window are not available at the UE due to
DL CCA failures at gNB during the corresponding identification period;
otherwise the SMTC occasion is considered as available at the UE.

In the requirements of clause 6.2.3.2, the term PRACH occasion
unavailable for transmission refers to when the PRACH occasion is
configured by gNB but not transmitted by the UE during the corresponding
period due to UL CCA failure at the UE.

#### 6.2.3.2 Requirements

##### 6.2.3.2.1 RRC connection release with redirection to NR

The UE shall be capable of performing the RRC connection release with
redirection to the target NR cell within
T~connection\_release\_redirect\_NR~.

The time delay (T~connection\_release\_redirect\_NR~) is the time
between the end of the last slot containing the RRC command,
"*RRCRelease*" (TS 38.331 \[2\]) on the NR PDSCH and the time the UE
starts to send random access to the target NR cell. The time delay
(T~connection\_release\_redirect\_NR~) shall be less than:

T~connection\_release\_redirect\_NR~ = T~RRC\_procedure\_delay~ +
T~identify-NR~ + T~SI-NR~ + T~RACH~

The target NR cell shall be considered detetable when for each relevant
SSB, the side conditions should be met that,

\- the conditions of SSB\_RP and SSB Ês/Iot according to Annex B.2.5 for
a corresponding NR Band are fulfilled.

T~RRC\_procedure\_delay~: It is the RRC procedure delay for processing
the received message "*RRCRelease*" as defined in clause 6.2.2 of TS
38.331 \[2\].

T~identify-NR~: It is the time to identify the target NR cell and
depends on the FR of the target NR cell. It is defined in Table
6.2.3.2.1-1. Note that T~identify-NR~ = T~PSS/SSS-sync~ + T~meas~, in
which T~PSS/SSS-sync~ is the cell search time and T~meas~ is the
measurement time due to cell selection criteria evaluation.

T~SI-NR~: It is the time required for acquiring all the relevant system
information of the target NR cell. This time depends upon whether the UE
is provided with the relevant system information of the target NR cell
or not by the old NR cell before the RRC connection is released.
T~RACH:~ It is the delay uncertainty in acquiring the first available
PRACH occasion in the target NR cell. T~RACH~ can be up to the summation
of SSB to PRACH occasion association period and 10 ms. SSB to PRACH
occasion associated period is defined in the table 8.1-1 of TS 38.213
\[3\].

T~rs~ is the SMTC periodicity of the target NR cell if the UE has been
provided with an SMTC configuration for the target cell in the
redirection command, otherwise T~rs~ is the SMTC periodicity configured
in the *measObjectNR* having the same SSB frequency and subcarrier
spacing configured for the RRC connection release with redirection. If
the measObjectNRs having the same SSB frequency and subcarrier spacing
configured by MN and SN have different SMTC, T~rs~ is the periodicity of
one of the SMTC which is up to UE implementation. If the UE is not
provided with SMTC configuration or measurement object for the frequency
which is also configured for the RRC connection release with redirection
then:

\- the requirement in this clause is applied with T~rs~ = 20 ms if the
SSB transmission periodicity is not larger than 20 ms; otherwise,

\- there is no requirement if the SSB transmission periodicity is larger
than 20ms.

Table 6.2.3.2.1-1: Time to identify target NR cell for RRC connection
release with redirection to NR

  FR of target NR cell                                                                                                                                                                                                             T~identify-NR~
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  FR1                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MAX (680 ms, 11 x T~rs~)
  FR2                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MAX (880 ms, 8x11 x T~rs~)
  Note: If the UE has been provided with higher layer signaling of *smtc2* specified in TS 38.331 \[2\] prior to the redirection command, T~rs~ follows *smtc1* or *smtc2* according to the physical cell ID of the target cell.   

##### 6.2.3.2.2 RRC connection release with redirection to E-UTRAN

The UE shall be capable of performing the RRC connection release with
redirection to the target E-UTRAN cell within
T~connection\_release\_redirect\_E-UTRA~.

The time delay (T~connection\_release\_redirect\_E-UTRA~) is the time
between the end of the last slot containing the RRC command,
"*RRCRelease*" (TS 38.331 \[2\]) on the PDSCH and the time the UE starts
to send random access to the target E-UTRA cell. The time delay
(T~connection\_release\_redirect\_E-UTRA~) shall be less than:

T~connection\_release\_redirect\_E-UTRA~ = T~RRC\_procedure\_delay~ +
T~identify-E-UTRA~ + T~SI-E-UTRA~ + T~RACH~

The target E-UTRA FDD or TDD cell shall be considered detectable
provided the following conditions are fulfilled:

\- the same conditions as for inter-frequency RSRP measurements
specified in annex B.1.2 of TS 36.133 \[15\] are fulfilled for a
corresponding Band, and

\- the same conditions as for inter-frequency RSRQ measurements
specified in annex B.1.2 of TS 36.133 \[15\] are fulfilled for a
corresponding Band, and

\- SCH conditions specified in annex B.1.2 of TS 36.133 \[15\] are
fulfilled for a corresponding Band.

T~RRC\_procedure\_delay~: It is the RRC procedure delay for processing
the received message "*RRCRelease*" as defined in clause 6.2.2 of TS
38.331 \[2\].

T~identify-E-UTRA~: It is the time to identify the target E-UTRA cell.
It shall be less than 320 ms.

T~SI-E-UTRA~: It is the time required for acquiring all the relevant
system information of the target E-UTRA cell. This time depends upon
whether the UE is provided with the relevant system information (SI) of
the target E-UTRA cell or not by the old NR cell before the RRC
connection is released.

T~RACH~: It is the delay caused due to the random access procedure when
sending random access to the target E-UTRA cell.

##### 6.2.3.2.3 RRC connection release with redirection to NR carrier subject to CCA

The UE shall be capable of performing the RRC connection release with
redirection to the target NR cell subject to CCA within
T~connection\_release\_redirect\_NR\_CCA~.

The time delay (T~connection\_release\_redirect\_NR\_CCA~) is the time
between the end of the last slot containing the RRC command,
"*RRCRelease*" (TS 38.331 \[2\]) on the NR PDSCH and the time the UE
starts to send random access to the target NR cell. The time delay
(T~connection\_release\_redirect\_NR\_CCA~) shall be less than:

T~connection\_release\_redirect\_NR\_CCA~ = T~RRC\_procedure\_delay~ +
T~identify-NR\_CCA~ + T~SI-NR\_CCA~ + T~RACH\_CCA~

The target NR cell shall be considered detetable when for each relevant
SSB, the side conditions should be met that,

\- the conditions of SSB\_RP and SSB Ês/Iot according to Annex B.2.5 for
a corresponding NR Band are fulfilled.

T~RRC\_procedure\_delay~: It is the RRC procedure delay for processing
the received message "*RRCRelease*" as defined in clause 6.2.2 of TS
38.331 \[2\].

T~identify-NR\_CCA~: It is the time to identify the target NR cell and
is defined as:

\- T~identify-NR\_CCA~ = T~PSS/SSS-sync~ + T~meas~; T~PSS/SSS-sync~ is
the cell search time and T~meas~ is the measurement time due to cell
selection criteria evaluation.

\- T~identify-NR\_CCA~ = MAX (680 ms, (L~1~+11) × T~rs~); where L~1~ is
the number of SMTC occasions not available at the UE due to DL CCA
failures. If L~1~ \> L~1,max~ then the UE shall initiate cell selection
procedures for the selected PLMN as defined in TS 38.304 \[1\]; where
L~1,max~ is defined in Table 6.2.3.2.3-1.

T~SI-NR\_CCA~: It is the time required for acquiring all the relevant
system information of the target NR cell. This time depends upon whether
the UE is provided with the relevant system information of the target NR
cell or not by the old NR cell before the RRC connection is released.

T~RACH\_CCA:~ It is the delay uncertainty in acquiring the first
available PRACH occasion in the target NR cell:

\- T~RACH\_CCA~ = (1+L~2~)×T~SSB,RO~ + 10 ms T~PRACH~; where:

\- L~2~ is the consecutive number of SSB to PRACH occasion association
periods during which no PRACH occasion is available for PRACH
transmission due to UL CCA failures. L~2~ = 0 for Type 2C UL channel
access procedure as defined in TS 37.213 \[33\].

\- T~SSB,RO~ is the SSB to PRACH occasion association period as defined
in the table 8.1-1 of TS 38.213 \[3\].

\- The value of L2 is limited by *PREAMBLE\_TRANSMISSION\_COUNTER*,
which is increased when PRACH occasion is unavailable for PRACH
transmission due to UL CCA failure as specified in TS 38.321 \[7\]. The
UE behaviour when *PREAMBLE\_TRANSMISSION\_COUNTER* reaches the
*preambleTransMax* is specified in TS 38.321 \[7\].

T~rs~ is the SMTC periodicity of the target NR cell if the UE has been
provided with an SMTC configuration for the target cell in the
redirection command, otherwise T~rs~ is the SMTC periodicity configured
in the *measObjectNR* having the same SSB frequency and subcarrier
spacing configured for the RRC connection release with redirection. If
the UE is not provided with SMTC configuration or measurement object for
the frequency which is also configured for the RRC connection release
with redirection then:

\- the requirement in this clause is applied with T~rs~ = 20 ms if the
SSB transmission periodicity is not larger than 20 ms;

\- otherwise, there is no requirement if the SSB transmission
periodicity is larger than 20ms.

Table 6.2.3.2.3-1: Maximum allowed number of missed SMTC occasions
during cell identification

  SMTC periodicity (T~rs~) \[ms\]   Maximum allowed number of missed SMTC occasions (L~1,max~)
  --------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------
  T~rs~ ≤ 40                        8
  T~rs~ \> 40                       4

7 Timing
========

7.1 UE transmit timing
----------------------

### 7.1.1 Introduction

The UE shall have capability to follow the frame timing change of the
reference cell in connected state. The uplink frame transmission takes
place before the reception of the first detected path (in time) of the
corresponding downlink frame from the reference cell. For serving
cell(s) in pTAG, UE shall use the SpCell as the reference cell for
deriving the UE transmit timing for cells in the pTAG. For serving
cell(s) in sTAG, UE shall use any of the activated SCells as the
reference cell for deriving the UE transmit timing for the cells in the
sTAG. UE initial transmit timing accuracy and gradual timing adjustment
requirements are defined in the following requirements.

In the requirements of clause 7.1.2, the term reference cell on a
carrier frequency subject to CCA is not available at the UE refers to
when at least one SSB is configured by gNB, but the first two successive
candidate SSB positions for the same SSB index within the discovery
burst transmission window are not available **during at least one
discovery burst transmission window,** at the UE due to DL CCA failures
at gNB during the last 1280 ms; otherwise the reference cell on the
carrier frequency subject to CCA is considered as available at the UE.

### 7.1.2 Requirements

The UE initial transmission timing error shall be less than or equal to
±T~e~ where the timing error limit value T~e~ is specified in Table
7.1.2-1. This requirement applies:

\- when it is the first transmission in a DRX cycle for PUCCH, PUSCH and
SRS, or it is the PRACH transmission, or it is the msgA transmission..

The UE shall meet the Te requirement for an initial transmission
provided that at least one SSB is available at the UE during the last
160 ms. The reference point for the UE initial transmit timing control
requirement shall be the downlink timing of the reference cell minus
![](media/image8.wmf){width="1.2527777777777778in"
height="0.20555555555555555in"}. The downlink timing is defined as the
time when the first detected path (in time) of the corresponding
downlink frame is received from the reference cell. *N*~TA~ for PRACH is
defined as 0.

![](media/image8.wmf){width="1.2527777777777778in"
height="0.20555555555555555in"} (in *T~c~* units) for other channels is
the difference between UE transmission timing and the downlink timing
immediately after when the last timing advance in clause 7.3 was
applied. *N*~TA~ for other channels is not changed until next timing
advance is received. The value
of![](media/image9.wmf){width="0.5472222222222223in"
height="0.20555555555555555in"}depends on the duplex mode of the cell in
which the uplink transmission takes place and the frequency range (FR).
![](media/image9.wmf){width="0.5472222222222223in"
height="0.20555555555555555in"}is defined in Table 7.1.2-2.

Table 7.1.2-1: T~e~ Timing Error Limit

  ------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------- ----------------------------- ---------------
  Frequency Range                                                    SCS of SSB signals (kHz)   SCS of uplink signals (kHz)   T~e~
  1                                                                  15                         15                            12\*64\*T~c~
                                                                                                30                            10\*64\*T~c~
                                                                                                60                            10\*64\*T~c~
                                                                     30                         15                            8\*64\*T~c~
                                                                                                30                            8\*64\*T~c~
                                                                                                60                            7\*64\*T~c~
  2                                                                  120                        60                            3.5\*64\*T~c~
                                                                                                120                           3.5\*64\*T~c~
                                                                     240                        60                            3\*64\*T~c~
                                                                                                120                           3\*64\*T~c~
  Note 1: T~c~ is the basic timing unit defined in TS 38.211 \[6\]                                                            
  ------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------- ----------------------------- ---------------

Table 7.1.2-2: The Value of
![](media/image9.wmf){width="0.5409722222222222in"
height="0.20555555555555555in"}

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Frequency range and band of cell | ![](media/image9.w               |
| used for uplink transmission     | mf){width="0.5409722222222222in" |
|                                  | heigh                            |
|                                  | t="0.20555555555555555in"}(Unit: |
|                                  | T~C~)                            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| FR1 FDD or TDD band with neither | 25600 (Note 1)                   |
| E-UTRA--NR nor NB-IoT--NR        |                                  |
| coexistence case                 |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| FR1 FDD band with E-UTRA--NR     | 0 (Note 1)                       |
| and/or NB-IoT--NR coexistence    |                                  |
| case                             |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| FR1 TDD band with E-UTRA--NR     | 39936 (Note 1)                   |
| and/or NB-IoT--NR coexistence    |                                  |
| case                             |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| FR2                              | 13792                            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Note 1: The UE identifies        |                                  |
| ![](media/image9.w               |                                  |
| mf){width="0.5409722222222222in" |                                  |
| height="0.20555555555555555in"}  |                                  |
| based on the information         |                                  |
| n-TimingAdvanceOffset as         |                                  |
| specified in TS 38.331 \[2\]. If |                                  |
| UE is not provided with the      |                                  |
| information                      |                                  |
| n-TimingAdvanceOffset, the       |                                  |
| default value of                 |                                  |
| ![](media/image9.w               |                                  |
| mf){width="0.5409722222222222in" |                                  |
| height="0.20555555555555555in"}  |                                  |
| is set as 25600 for FR1 band. In |                                  |
| case of multiple UL carriers in  |                                  |
| the same TAG, UE expects that    |                                  |
| the same value of                |                                  |
| n-TimingAdvanceOffset is         |                                  |
| provided for all the UL carriers |                                  |
| according to clause 4.2 in       |                                  |
| TS 38.213 \[3\] and the value    |                                  |
| 39936 of                         |                                  |
| ![](media/image9.w               |                                  |
| mf){width="0.5409722222222222in" |                                  |
| height="0.20555555555555555in"}  |                                  |
| can also be provided for a FDD   |                                  |
| serving cell.                    |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Note 2: Void                     |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

When it is not the first transmission in a DRX cycle or there is no DRX
cycle, and when it is the transmission for PUCCH, PUSCH and SRS
transmission, the UE shall be capable of changing the transmission
timing according to the received downlink frame of the reference cell
except when the timing advance in clause 7.3 is applied.

Table 7.1.2-3: void

If the UE uses a reference cell on a carrier frequency subject to CCA
for deriving the UE transmit timing, then the UE shall meet all the
transmit timing requirements defined in clause 7.1.2 provided that the
reference cell is available at the UE. If the reference cell is not
available at the UE on a carrier frequency subject to CCA, then the UE
is allowed to transmit in the uplink provided that the UE meets all the
transmit timing requirements defined in clause 7.1.2; otherwise the UE
shall not transmit any uplink signal.

If a reference cell on a carrier frequency belonging to the PTAG, which
is subject to CCA, is not available at the UE then the UE is allowed to
use any of available activated SCell(s) at the UE in PTAG as a new
reference cell. If the SCell used as reference cell is deactivated, or
becomes not available, the UE is allowed to use another active serving
cell in PTAG as new reference cell.

If a reference cell on a carrier frequency belonging to the STAG, which
is subject to CCA is not available at the UE then the UE is allowed to
use any of available activated SCell(s) at the UE in STAG as a new
reference cell.

#### 7.1.2.1 Gradual timing adjustment

Requirements in this section shall apply regardless of whether the
reference cell is on a carrier frequency subject to CCA or not.

When the transmission timing error between the UE and the reference
timing exceeds ±T~e~ then the UE is required to adjust its timing to
within ±T~e~. The reference timing shall be
![](media/image10.wmf){width="1.2527777777777778in"
height="0.20555555555555555in"} before the downlink timing of the
reference cell. All adjustments made to the UE uplink timing shall
follow these rules:

1\) The maximum amount of the magnitude of the timing change in one
adjustment shall be T~q~.

2\) The minimum aggregate adjustment rate shall be T~p~ per second.

3\) The maximum aggregate adjustment rate shall be T~q~ per 200 ms.

where the maximum autonomous time adjustment step T~q~ and the aggregate
adjustment rate T~p~ are specified in Table 7.1.2.1-1.

Table 7.1.2.1-1: T~q~ Maximum Autonomous Time Adjustment Step and T~p~
Minimum Aggregate Adjustment rate

  ---------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------- --------------- ---------------
  Frequency Range                                                  SCS of uplink signals (kHz)   T~q~            T~p~
  1                                                                15                            5.5\*64\*T~c~   5.5\*64\*T~c~
                                                                   30                            5.5\*64\*T~c~   5.5\*64\*T~c~
                                                                   60                            5.5\*64\*T~c~   5.5\*64\*T~c~
  2                                                                60                            2.5\*64\*T~c~   2.5\*64\*T~c~
                                                                   120                           2.5\*64\*T~c~   2.5\*64\*T~c~
  NOTE: T~c~ is the basic timing unit defined in TS 38.211 \[6\]                                                 
  ---------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------- --------------- ---------------

#### 7.1.2.2 Void

Table 7.1.2.2-1: Void

7.2 UE timer accuracy
---------------------

### 7.2.1 Introduction

UE timers are used in different protocol entities to control the UE
behaviour.

### 7.2.2 Requirements

For UE timers specified in TS 38.331 \[2\], the UE shall comply with the
timer accuracies according to Table 7.2.2-1.

The requirements are only related to the actual timing measurements
internally in the UE. They do not include the following:

\- Inaccuracy in the start and stop conditions of a timer (e.g. UE
reaction time to detect that start and stop conditions of a timer is
fulfilled), or

\- Inaccuracies due to restrictions in observability of start and stop
conditions of a UE timer (e.g. slot alignment when UE sends messages at
timer expiry).

Table 7.2.2-1

  ------------------- ----------
  Timer value \[s\]   Accuracy
  timer value \< 4    ± 0.1s
  timer value ≥ 4     ± 2.5%
  ------------------- ----------

7.3 Timing advance
------------------

### 7.3.1 Introduction

The timing advance is initiated from gNB to UE in EN-DC, NR-DC, NE-DC
and NR SA operation modes, with MAC message that implies the adjustment
of the timing advance, as defined in clause 5.2 of TS 38.321 \[7\].

### 7.3.2 Requirements

#### 7.3.2.1 Timing Advance adjustment delay

UE shall adjust the timing of its uplink transmission timing at time
slot *n*+ *k+1* for a timing advance command received in time slot *n*,
and the value of *k* is defined in clause 4.2 in TS 38.213 \[3\]. The
same requirement applies also when the UE is not able to transmit a
configured uplink transmission due to the channel assessment procedure.

#### 7.3.2.2 Timing Advance adjustment accuracy

The UE shall adjust the timing of its transmissions with a relative
accuracy better than or equal to the UE Timing Advance adjustment
accuracy requirement in Table 7.3.2.2-1, to the signalled timing advance
value compared to the timing of preceding uplink transmission. The
timing advance command step is defined in TS 38.213 \[3\].

Table 7.3.2.2-1: UE Timing Advance adjustment accuracy

  UL Sub Carrier Spacing(kHz)             15          30          60          120
  --------------------------------------- ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------
  UE Timing Advance adjustment accuracy   ±256 T~c~   ±256 T~c~   ±128 T~c~   ±32 T~c~

7.4 Cell phase synchronization accuracy
---------------------------------------

### 7.4.1 Definition

Cell phase synchronization accuracy for TDD is defined as the maximum
absolute deviation in frame start timing between any pair of cells on
the same frequency that have overlapping coverage areas.

### 7.4.2 Minimum requirements

The cell phase synchronization accuracy measured at BS antenna
connectors or radiated interface boundaries shall be better than 3 µs.

7.5 Maximum Transmission Timing Difference
------------------------------------------

### 7.5.1 Introduction

A UE shall be capable of handling a relative transmission timing
difference between subframe timing boundary of E-UTRA PCell and the
closest slot timing boundary of PSCell to be aggregated for EN-DC
operation.

A UE shall be capable of handling a relative transmission timing
difference among the closest slot timing boundaries of different
carriers to be aggregated in NR carrier aggregation.

A UE shall be capable of handling a relative transmission timing
difference between slot timing boundary of PCell and subframe timing
boundary of E-UTRA PSCell to be aggregated for NE-DC operation.

A UE shall be capable of handling a relative transmission timing
difference between slot timing boundaries of PCell and the closest slot
timing boundary of PSCell to be aggregated in NR DC operation.

### 7.5.2 Minimum Requirements for inter-band EN-DC

The UE shall be capable of handling a maximum uplink transmission timing
difference between E-UTRA PCell and PSCell as shown in Table 7.5.2-1.

Table 7.5.2-1 Maximum uplink transmission timing difference requirement
for asynchronous EN-DC

  Sub-carrier spacing in E-UTRA PCell (kHz)                                                                                                                                                         UL Sub-carrier spacing for data in PSCell (kHz)   Maximum uplink transmission timing difference (µs)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------
  15                                                                                                                                                                                                15                                                500
  15                                                                                                                                                                                                30                                                250
  15                                                                                                                                                                                                60                                                125
  15                                                                                                                                                                                                120^Note1^                                        62.5
  NOTE 1: For E-UTRA FDD-NR FDD intra-band EN-DC, for which the requirement is defined in clause 7.5.3 and this Table 7.5.2-1 is also applicable, the scenario with 120kHz PSCell does not exist.                                                     

Table 7.5.2-2 Void

#### 7.5.2.1 Minimum Requirements for inter-band synchronous EN-DC

The requirements in this clause apply as a reference for inter-band
synchronous EN-DC.

The UE shall be capable of handling a maximum uplink transmission timing
difference between E-UTRA PCell and PSCell for inter-band synchronous
EN-DC as shown in Table 7.5.2.1-1 1. The requirements for synchronous
EN-DC are applicable for E-UTRA TDD-NR TDD, E-UTRA FDD-NR FDD, E-UTRA
TDD-NR FDD and E-UTRA FDD-NR TDD inter-band EN-DC.

For E-UTRA TDD-NR TDD inter-band EN-DC with overlapping or partially
overlapping DL bands, only synchronized operation is assumed. The UE
shall be capable of handling a maximum uplink transmission timing
difference between E-UTRA PCell and PSCell as shown in Table 7.5.2.1-1
provided that UE indicates that it is capable of
*interBandMRDC-WithOverlapDL-Bands-r16*, and in Table 7.5.3-1 provided
that it is not capable of *interBandMRDC-WithOverlapDL-Bands-r16*.

Table 7.5.2.1-1 Maximum uplink transmission timing difference
requirement for inter-band synchronous EN-DC

  Sub-carrier spacing in E-UTRA PCell (kHz)   UL Sub-carrier spacing for data in PSCell (kHz)   Maximum uplink transmission timing difference (µs)
  ------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------
  15                                          15                                                35.21
  15                                          30                                                35.21
  15                                          60                                                35.21
  15                                          120                                               35.21

### 7.5.3 Minimum Requirements for intra-band EN-DC

For intra-band EN-DC, only co-located deployment is applied.

The UE shall be capable of handling a maximum uplink transmission timing
difference between E-UTRA PCell and PSCell as shown in Table 7.5.2-1 for
E-UTRA FDD-NR FDD intra-band EN-DC provided the UE indicates that it is
capable of asynchronous EN-DC operation \[2\].

The UE shall be capable of handling a maximum uplink transmission timing
difference between E-UTRA PCell and PSCell as shown in Table 7.5.3-1 for
E-UTRA TDD-NR TDD and E-UTRA FDD-NR FDD intra-band EN-DC provided the UE
does not indicate that it is capable of asynchronous FDD-FDD EN-DC
operation \[16\].

Table 7.5.3-1: Maximum uplink transmission timing difference requirement
for intra-band synchronous EN-DC

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Sub-carrier spacing  | UL Sub-carrier       | Maximum uplink       |
| in E-UTRA PCell      | spacing for data in  | transmission timing  |
| (kHz)                | PSCell (kHz)         | difference (µs)      |
+======================+======================+======================+
| 15                   | 15                   | 5.21^Note1,Note\ 2^  |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 15                   | 30                   | 5.21^Note\ 2^        |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 15                   | 60                   | 5.21 ^Note\ 2^       |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| NOTE 1: This is not  |                      |                      |
| applicable for a UE  |                      |                      |
| which indicates the  |                      |                      |
| capability of only   |                      |                      |
| supporting single UL |                      |                      |
| timing               |                      |                      |
| (*ul-Timi            |                      |                      |
| ngAlignmentEUTRA-NR* |                      |                      |
| is signalled).       |                      |                      |
| Single UL timing for |                      |                      |
| E-UTRA and NR cell   |                      |                      |
| is assumed for this  |                      |                      |
| UE.                  |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| NOTE 2: If the       |                      |                      |
| transmission timing  |                      |                      |
| difference exceeds   |                      |                      |
| the cyclic prefix    |                      |                      |
| length of the UL     |                      |                      |
| Sub-carrier spacing  |                      |                      |
| for data in PSCell,  |                      |                      |
| NR UE Tx EVM         |                      |                      |
| degradation is       |                      |                      |
| expected for the     |                      |                      |
| symbol that is       |                      |                      |
| overlapping the LTE  |                      |                      |
| subframe boundary    |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

### 7.5.4 Minimum Requirements for NR Carrier Aggregation

The UE shall be capable of handling at least a relative transmission
timing difference between slot timing of all pairs of TAGs as shown in
Table 7.5.4-1, provided that the UE is:

\- configured with the pTAG and the sTAG for inter-band NR carrier
aggregation in SA or NR-DC mode, or

\- configured with more than one sTAG for inter-band NR carrier
aggregation in EN-DC or NE-DC mode.

Table 7.5.4-1: Maximum uplink transmission timing difference requirement
for inter-band NR carrier aggregation

  Frequency Range of the pair of TAGs                                                                       Maximum uplink transmission timing difference (µs)
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------
  FR1                                                                                                       34.6
  FR2                                                                                                       8.5 ^Note1^
  Between FR1 and FR2                                                                                       26.1
  Note1: This requirement applies to the UE capable of independent beam management for FR2 inter-band CA.   

### 7.5.5 Minimum Requirements for inter-band NE-DC

The UE shall be capable of handling a maximum uplink transmission timing
difference between PCell and E-UTRA PSCell as shown in Table 7.5.5-1 for
inter-band asynchronous NE-DC.

Table 7.5.5-1: Maximum uplink transmission timing difference requirement
for inter-band asynchronous NE-DC

  Sub-carrier spacing in PCell (kHz)   UL Sub-carrier spacing for data in E-UTRA PSCell (kHz)   Maximum uplink transmission timing difference (µs)
  ------------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------
  15                                   15                                                       500
  30                                   15                                                       250
  60                                   15                                                       125
  120                                  15                                                       62.5
  NOTE 1: Void                                                                                  

Table 7.5.5-2 Void

#### 7.5.5.1 Minimum Requirements for inter-band synchronous NE-DC

The requirements in this clause apply as a reference for inter-band
synchronous NE-DC.

The UE shall be capable of handling a maximum uplink transmission timing
difference between PCell and E-UTRA PSCell for inter-band synchronous
NE-DC as shown in Table 7.5.5.1-1. The requirements for synchronous
NE-DC are applicable for NR TDD- E-UTRA TDD, NR FDD- E-UTRA FDD, NR TDD-
E-UTRA FDD and NR FDD- E-UTRA TDD inter-band NE-DC.

Table 7.5.5.1-1: Maximum uplink transmission timing difference
requirement for inter-band synchronous NE-DC

  Sub-carrier spacing in PCell (kHz)   UL Sub-carrier spacing for data in E-UTRA PSCell (kHz)   Maximum uplink transmission timing difference (µs)
  ------------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------
  15                                   15                                                       35.21
  30                                   15                                                       35.21
  60                                   15                                                       35.21
  120                                  15                                                       35.21

### 7.5.6 Minimum Requirements for inter-band NR DC

The UE shall be capable of handling a maximum uplink transmission timing
difference between PCell and PSCell as shown in Table 7.5.6-1 provided
that the UE indicates that it is capable of synchronous NR DC only
\[14\].

Table 7.5.6-1: Maximum uplink transmission timing difference requirement
for inter-band synchronous NR DC

  Frequency Range   Maximum uplink transmission timing difference (µs)   
  ----------------- ---------------------------------------------------- ------
  Cell in MCG       Cell in SCG                                          
  FR1               FR1                                                  34.6
  FR2               FR2                                                  8.5
  FR1               FR2                                                  34.1

The UE shall be capable of handling a maximum uplink transmission timing
difference between PCell and PSCell as shown in Table 7.5.6-2 provided
that the UE indicates that it is capable of asynchronous NR DC \[14\].

Table 7.5.6-2 Maximum uplink transmission timing difference requirement
for inter-band asynchronous NR DC

  Max {Sub-carrier spacing in PCell (kHz), Sub-carrier spacing in PSCell (kHz)}   Maximum uplink transmission timing difference (µs)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------
  15                                                                              500
  30                                                                              250
  60                                                                              125
  120                                                                             62.5

7.6 Maximum Receive Timing Difference
-------------------------------------

### 7.6.1 Introduction

A UE shall be capable of handling a relative receive timing difference
between subframe timing boundary of an E-UTRA cell belonging to the MCG
and the closest slot timing boundary of a cell belonging to SCG to be
aggregated for EN-DC operation.

A UE shall be capable of handling a relative receive timing difference
between subframe timing boundary of an E-UTRA cell belonging to the SCG
to be aggregated for NE-DC operation and the closest slot timing
boundary of a cell belonging to MCG.

A UE shall be capable of handling a relative receive timing difference
between slot timing boundary of a cell belonging to MCG and the closest
slot timing boundary of a cell belonging to the SCG to be aggregated for
NR DC operation.

A UE shall be capable of handling a relative receive timing difference
among the closest slot timing boundaries of different carriers to be
aggregated in NR carrier aggregation.

The requirements defined in clause 7.6 are also applicable when UE is
configured to receive multiple PDSCH transmission occasions from one or
more QCL sources on any one of the aggregated NR carriers.

### 7.6.2 Minimum Requirements for inter-band EN-DC

The UE shall be capable of handling at least a relative receive timing
difference between subframe timing of signal from a E-UTRA cell
belonging to the MCG and slot timing of signal from a cell belonging to
SCG at the UE receiver as shown in Table 7.6.2-1.

Table 7.6.2-1: Maximum receive timing difference requirement for
asynchronous EN-DC

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Sub-carrier spacing  | DL Sub-carrier       | Maximum receive      |
| of E-UTRA cell in    | spacing of cell in   | timing difference    |
| MCG (kHz)            | SCG (kHz) (Note 1)   | (µs)                 |
+======================+======================+======================+
| 15                   | 15                   | 500                  |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 15                   | 30                   | 250                  |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 15                   | 60                   | 125                  |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 15                   | 120^Note2^           | 62.5                 |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| NOTE 1: DL           |                      |                      |
| Sub-carrier spacing  |                      |                      |
| is min{SCS~SS~,      |                      |                      |
| SCS~DATA~}.          |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| NOTE 2: For E-UTRA   |                      |                      |
| FDD-NR FDD           |                      |                      |
| intra-band EN-DC,    |                      |                      |
| for which the        |                      |                      |
| requirement is       |                      |                      |
| defined in clause    |                      |                      |
| 7.6.3 and this Table |                      |                      |
| 7.6.2-1 is also      |                      |                      |
| applicable, the      |                      |                      |
| scenario with        |                      |                      |
| 120 kHz does not     |                      |                      |
| exit.                |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

Table 7.6.2-2 Void

Table 7.6.2-3 Void

#### 7.6.2.1 Minimum Requirements for inter-band synchronous EN-DC

The requirements in this clause apply as a reference for inter-band
synchronous EN-DC.

The UE shall be capable of handling at least a relative receive timing
difference between subframe timing of signal from an E-UTRA cell
belonging to the MCG and slot timing of signal from a cell belonging to
SCG at the UE receiver for inter-band synchronous EN-DC as shown in
Table 7.6.2.1-1. The requirements for synchronous EN-DC are applicable
for E-UTRA TDD-NR TDD, E-UTRA FDD-NR FDD, E-UTRA TDD-NR FDD and E-UTRA
FDD-NR TDD inter-band EN-DC.

For E-UTRA TDD-NR TDD inter-band EN-DC with overlapping or partially
overlapping DL bands, only synchronized operation is assumed. The UE
shall be capable of handling at least a relative receive timing
difference between subframe timing of signal from a E-UTRA cell
belonging to the MCG and slot timing of signal from a cell belonging to
the SCG at the UE receiver as shown in Table 7.6.2.1-1 provided that UE
indicates that it is capable of *interBandMRDC-WithOverlapDL-Bands-r16*,
and in Table 7.6.3-1 provided that it is not capable of
*interBandMRDC-WithOverlapDL-Bands-r16*.

Table 7.6.2.1-1: Maximum receive timing difference requirement for
inter-band synchronous EN-DC

  Sub-carrier spacing of E-UTRA cell in MCG (kHz)              DL Sub-carrier spacing of cell in SCG (kHz) (Note1)   Maximum receive timing difference (µs)
  ------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------
  15                                                           15                                                    33
  15                                                           30                                                    
  15                                                           60                                                    
  15                                                           120                                                   
  Note 1: DL Sub-carrier spacing is min{SCS~SS~, SCS~DATA~}.                                                         

### 7.6.3 Minimum Requirements for intra-band EN-DC

For intra-band EN-DC, only co-located deployment is applied.

The UE shall be capable of handling at least a relative receive timing
difference between subframe timing of signal from a E-UTRA cell
belonging to the MCG and slot timing of signal from a cell belonging to
the SCG as shown in Table 7.6.2-1 for E-UTRA FDD-NR FDD intra-band EN-DC
provided the UE indicates that it is capable of asynchronous EN-DC
operation \[2\].

The UE shall be capable of handling at least a relative receive timing
difference between subframe timing of signal from a E-UTRA cell
belonging to the MCG and slot timing of signal from a cell belonging to
the SCG as shown in Table 7.6.3-1 for E-UTRA FDD-NR FDD and E-UTRA
TDD-NR TDD intra-band EN-DC provided the UE does not indicate that it is
capable of asynchronous FDD-FDD EN-DC operation \[16\].

Table 7.6.3-1 Maximum receive timing difference requirement for
intra-band synchronous EN-DC

  Sub-carrier spacing of E-UTRA cell in MCG (kHz)              DL Sub-carrier spacing of cell in SCG (kHz) ^Note1^   Maximum receive timing difference (µs)
  ------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------
  15                                                           15                                                    3
  15                                                           30                                                    3
  15                                                           60                                                    3
  NOTE 1: DL Sub-carrier spacing is min{SCS~SS~, SCS~DATA~}.                                                         

Table 7.6.3-2 Void

### 7.6.4 Minimum Requirements for NR Carrier Aggregation

For intra-band CA, only co-located deployment is applied. For intra-band
non-contiguous NR carrier aggregation, the UE shall be capable of
handling at least a relative receive timing difference between slot
timing of different carriers to be aggregated at the UE receiver as
shown in Table 7.6.4-1 below.

Table 7.6.4-1: Maximum receive timing difference requirement for
intra-band non-contiguous NR carrier aggregation

  Frequency Range                                                                                                                                                                                                          Maximum receive timing difference (µs)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------
  FR1                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3^1^
  FR2                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.26
  Note 1: In the case of different SCS on different CCs, if the receive time difference exceeds the cyclic prefix length of that SCS, demodulation performance degradation is expected for the first symbol of the slot.   

For inter-band NR carrier aggregation, the UE shall be capable of
handling at least a relative receive timing difference between slot
timing of all pairs of carriers to be aggregated at the UE receiver as
shown in Table 7.6.4-2 below.

Table 7.6.4-2: Maximum receive timing difference requirement for
inter-band NR carrier aggregation

  Frequency Range of the pair of carriers                                                                   Maximum receive timing difference (µs)
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------
  FR1                                                                                                       33
  FR2                                                                                                       8 ^note1^
  Between FR1 and FR2                                                                                       25
  Note1: This requirement applies to the UE capable of independent beam management for FR2 inter-band CA.   

### 7.6.5 Minimum Requirements for inter-band NE-DC

The UE shall be capable of handling at least a relative receive timing
difference between slot timing of signal from a cell belonging to the
MCG and subframe timing of signal from an E-UTRA cell belonging to the
SCG at the UE receiver for asynchronous NE-DC as shown in Table 7.6.5-1.

Table 7.6.5-1: Maximum receive timing difference requirement for
asynchronous NE-DC

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Sub-carrier spacing  | DL Sub-carrier       | Maximum receive      |
| of cell in MCG (kHz) | spacing of EUTRA     | timing difference    |
|                      | cell in SCG (kHz)    | (µs)                 |
|                      | (Note 1)             |                      |
+======================+======================+======================+
| 15                   | 15                   | 500                  |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 30                   | 15                   | 250                  |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 60                   | 15                   | 125                  |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 120                  | 15                   | 62.5                 |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| NOTE 1: DL           |                      |                      |
| Sub-carrier spacing  |                      |                      |
| is min{SCS~SS~,      |                      |                      |
| SCS~DATA~}.          |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| NOTE 2: Void         |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

Table 7.6.5-2: Void

#### 7.6.5.1 Minimum Requirements for inter-band synchronous NE-DC

The requirements in this clause apply as a reference for inter-band
synchronous NE-DC.

The UE shall be capable of handling at least a relative receive timing
difference between slot timing of signal from a cell belonging to the
MCG and subframe timing of signal from a E-UTRA cell belonging to the
SCG at the UE receiver for inter-band synchronous NE-DC as shown in
Table 7.6.5.1-1. The requirements for synchronous NE-DC are applicable
for NR TDD- E-UTRA TDD, NR FDD- E-UTRA FDD, NR TDD- E-UTRA FDD and NR
FDD- E-UTRA TDD inter-band NE-DC.

Table 7.6.5.1-1: Maximum receive timing difference requirement for
inter-band synchronous NE-DC

  Sub-carrier spacing of cell in MCG (kHz)   DL Sub-carrier spacing of EUTRA cell in SCG (kHz) (Note1)   Maximum receive timing difference (µs)
  ------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------
  15                                         15                                                          33
  30                                         15                                                          
  60                                         15                                                          
  120                                        15                                                          

### 7.6.6 Minimum Requirements for inter-band NR DC

The UE shall be capable of handling at least a relative receive timing
difference between slot timing of signal from a cell belonging to the
MCG and slot timing of signal from a cell belonging to the SCG at the UE
receiver as shown in Table 7.6.6-1 provided that the UE indicates that
it is capable of synchronous NR DC only \[16\].

Table 7.6.6-1: Maximum receive timing difference requirement for
inter-band synchronous NR DC

  Frequency Range   Maximum receive timing difference (µs)   
  ----------------- ---------------------------------------- ----
  Cell in MCG       Cell in SCG                              
  FR1               FR1                                      33
  FR2               FR2                                      8
  FR1               FR2                                      33

The UE shall be capable of handling at least a relative receive timing
difference between slot timing of signal from a cell belonging to the
MCG and slot timing of signal from a cell belonging to the SCG at the UE
receiver as shown in Table 7.6.6-2 provided that the UE indicates that
it is capable of asynchronous NR DC \[16\].

Table 7.6.6-2 Maximum receive timing difference requirement for
inter-band asynchronous NR DC

  Max {Sub-carrier spacing in PCell (kHz), Sub-carrier spacing in PSCell (kHz)}   Maximum receive timing difference (µs)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------
  15                                                                              500
  30                                                                              250
  60                                                                              125
  120                                                                             62.5

7.7 *deriveSSB-IndexFromCell* tolerance
---------------------------------------

### 7.7.1 Minimum requirements

When *deriveSSB-IndexFromCell* is enabled, the UE assumes frame boundary
alignment (including half frame, subframe and slot boundary alignment)
across cells on the same frequency carrier is within a tolerance not
worse than min(2 SSB symbols, 1 PDSCH symbol) and the SFNs of all cells
on the same frequency carrier are the same.

7.8 Void
--------

8 Signalling characteristics
============================

8.1 Radio Link Monitoring
-------------------------

### 8.1.1 Introduction

The requirements in clause 8.1 apply for radio link monitoring on:

\- PCell in SA NR, NR-DC and NE-DC operation mode,

\- PSCell in NR-DC and EN-DC operation mode.

The UE shall monitor the downlink radio link quality based on the
reference signal configured as RLM-RS resource(s) in order to detect the
downlink radio link quality of the PCell and PSCell as specified in
TS 38.213 \[3\]. The configured RLM-RS resources can be all SSBs, or all
CSI-RSs, or a mix of SSBs and CSI-RSs. UE is not required to perform RLM
outside the active DL BWP.

On each RLM-RS resource, the UE shall estimate the downlink radio link
quality and compare it to the thresholds Q~out~ and Q~in~ for the
purpose of monitoring downlink radio link quality of the cell.

The threshold Q~out~ is defined as the level at which the downlink radio
link cannot be reliably received and shall correspond to the out-of-sync
block error rate (BLER~out~) as defined in Table 8.1.1-1. For SSB based
radio link monitoring, Q~out\_SSB~ is derived based on the hypothetical
PDCCH transmission parameters listed in Table 8.1.2.1-1. For CSI-RS
based radio link monitoring, Q~out\_CSI-RS~ is derived based on the
hypothetical PDCCH transmission parameters listed in Table 8.1.3.1-1.

The threshold Q~in~ is defined as the level at which the downlink radio
link quality can be received with significantly higher reliability than
at Q~out~ and shall correspond to the in-sync block error rate
(BLER~in~) as defined in Table 8.1.1-1. For SSB based radio link
monitoring, Q~in\_SSB~ is derived based on the hypothetical PDCCH
transmission parameters listed in Table 8.1.2.1-2. For CSI-RS based
radio link monitoring, Q~in\_CSI-RS~ is derived based on the
hypothetical PDCCH transmission parameters listed in Table 8.1.3.1-2.

The out-of-sync block error rate (BLER~out~) and in-sync block error
rate (BLER~in~) are determined from the network configuration via
parameter *rlmInSyncOutOfSyncThreshold* signalled by higher layers. When
UE is not configured with *rlmInSyncOutOfSyncThreshold* from the
network, UE determines out-of-sync and in-sync block error rates from
Configuration \#0 in Table 8.1.1-1 by default. All requirements in
clause 8.1 are applicable for BLER Configuration \#0 in Table 8.1.1-1.

Table 8.1.1-1: Out-of-sync and in-sync block error rates

  Configuration   BLER~out~   BLER~in~
  --------------- ----------- ----------
  0               10%         2%

UE shall be able to monitor up to N~RLM~ RLM-RS resources of the same or
different types in each corresponding carrier frequency range, depending
on a maximum number of SSBs per half frame according to TS 38.213 \[3\],
where N~RLM~ is specified in Table 8.1.1-2 according TS 38.213 \[3\],
and meet the requirements as specified in clause 8.1. UE is not required
to meet the requirements in clause 8.1 if RLM-RS is not configured and
no TCI state for PDCCH is activated.

Table 8.1.1-2: Maximum number of RLM-RS resources N~RLM~

  Carrier frequency range of PCell/PSCell                                                                                                            Maximum number of RLM-RS resources, N~RLM~
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- --------------------------------------------
  FR1, ≤ 3 GHz^Note^                                                                                                                            4    2
  FR1, \> 3 GHz^Note^                                                                                                                           8    4
  FR2                                                                                                                                           64   8
  NOTE: For unpaired spectrum operation with Case C - 30 kHz SCS, 3GHz is replaced by 1.88GHz, as specified in clause 4.1 in TS 38.213 \[3\].        

### 8.1.2 Requirements for SSB based radio link monitoring

#### 8.1.2.1 Introduction

The requirements in this clause apply for each SSB based RLM-RS resource
configured for PCell or PSCell, provided that the SSB configured for RLM
is actually transmitted within UE active DL BWP during the entire
evaluation period specified in clause 8.1.2.2.

Table 8.1.2.1-1: PDCCH transmission parameters for out-of-sync
evaluation

  Attribute                                                          Value for BLER Configuration \#0
  ------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------
  DCI format                                                         1-0
  Number of control OFDM symbols                                     2
  Aggregation level (CCE)                                            8
  Ratio of hypothetical PDCCH RE energy to average SSS RE energy     4dB
  Ratio of hypothetical PDCCH DMRS energy to average SSS RE energy   4dB
  Bandwidth (PRBs)                                                   24
  Sub-carrier spacing (kHz)                                          SCS of the active DL BWP
  DMRS precoder granularity                                          REG bundle size
  REG bundle size                                                    6
  CP length                                                          Normal
  Mapping from REG to CCE                                            Distributed

Table 8.1.2.1-2: PDCCH transmission parameters for in-sync evaluation

  Attribute                                                          Value for BLER Configuration \#0
  ------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------
  DCI payload size                                                   1-0
  Number of control OFDM symbols                                     2
  Aggregation level (CCE)                                            4
  Ratio of hypothetical PDCCH RE energy to average SSS RE energy     0dB
  Ratio of hypothetical PDCCH DMRS energy to average SSS RE energy   0dB
  Bandwidth (PRBs)                                                   24
  Sub-carrier spacing (kHz)                                          SCS of the active DL BWP
  DMRS precoder granularity                                          REG bundle size
  REG bundle size                                                    6
  CP length                                                          Normal
  Mapping from REG to CCE                                            Distributed

#### 8.1.2.2 Minimum requirement

UE shall be able to evaluate whether the downlink radio link quality on
the configured RLM-RS resource estimated over the last
T~Evaluate\_out\_SSB~ \[ms\] period becomes worse than the threshold
Q~out\_SSB~ within T~Evaluate\_out\_SSB~ \[ms\] evaluation period.

UE shall be able to evaluate whether the downlink radio link quality on
the configured RLM-RS resource estimated over the last
T~Evaluate\_in\_SSB~ \[ms\] period becomes better than the threshold
Q~in\_SSB~ within T~Evaluate\_in\_SSB~ \[ms\] evaluation period.

T~Evaluate\_out\_SSB~ and T~Evaluate\_in\_SSB~ are defined in Table
8.1.2.2-1 for FR1.

T~Evaluate\_out\_SSB~ and T~Evaluate\_in\_SSB~ are defined in Table
8.1.2.2-2 for FR2 with scaling factor N=8.

For FR1,

\- $P = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{\text{MGRP}}}$, when in the
monitored cell there are measurement gaps configured for
intra-frequency, inter-frequency or inter-RAT measurements, and these
measurement gaps are overlapping with some but not all occasions of the
SSB; and

\- P = 1 when in the monitored cell there are no measurement gaps
overlapping with any occasion of the SSB.

For FR2,

\- $P = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{T_{\text{SMTCperiod}}}}$,
when RLM-RS resource is not overlapped with measurement gap and the
RLM-RS resource is partially overlapped with SMTC occasion (T~SSB~ \<
T~SMTCperiod~).

\- P is P~sharing\ factor~, when the RLM-RS resource is not overlapped
with measurement gap and RLM-RS resource is fully overlapped with SMTC
period (T~SSB~ = T~SMTCperiod~).

\-
$P = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{\text{MGRP}}\  - \ \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{T_{\text{SMTCperiod}}}}$,
when the RLM-RS resource is partially overlapped with measurement gap
and the RLM-RS resource is partially overlapped with SMTC occasion
(T~SSB~ \< T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC occasion is not overlapped with
measurement gap and

\- T~SMTCperiod~ ≠ MGRP or

\- T~SMTCperiod~ = MGRP and T~SSB~ \< 0.5\*T~SMTCperiod~

\-
$P = \frac{P_{\text{sharing\ factor}}}{1 - \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{\text{MGRP}}}$,
when the RLM-RS is partially overlapped with measurement gap and the
RLM-RS is partially overlapped with SMTC occasion (T~SSB~ \<
T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC occasion is not overlapped with measurement gap
and T~SMTCperiod~ = MGRP and T~SSB~ = 0.5 × T~SMTCperiod~

\-
$P = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{Min(MGRP,\ \ T_{\text{SMTCperiod}})}}$,
when the RLM-RS resource is partially overlapped with measurement gap
and the RLM-RS resource is partially overlapped with SMTC occasion
(T~SSB~ \< T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC occasion is partially or fully
overlapped with measurement gap

\-
$P = \frac{P_{\text{sharing\ factor}}}{1 - \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{\text{MRGP}}}$,
when the RLM-RS resource is partially overlapped with measurement gap
and the RLM-RS resource is fully overlapped with SMTC occasion (T~SSB~ =
T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC occasion is partially overlapped with
measurement gap (T~SMTCperiod~ \< MGRP)

\- P~sharing\ factor~ = 1, if the RLM-RS resource outside measurement
gap is

-   not overlapped with the SSB symbols indicated by *SSB-ToMeasure* and
    1 data symbol before each consecutive SSB symbols indicated by
    *SSB-ToMeasure* and 1 data symbol after each consecutive SSB symbols
    indicated by *SSB-ToMeasure*, given that *SSB-ToMeasure* is
    configured, where the *SSB-ToMeasure* is the union set of
    *SSB-ToMeasure* from all the configured measurement objects merged
    on the same serving carrier, and,

-   not overlapped by the RSSI symbols indicated by
    *ss-RSSI-Measurement* and 1 data symbol before each RSSI symbol
    indicated by *ss-RSSI-Measurement* and 1 data symbol after each RSSI
    symbol indicated by *ss-RSSI-Measurement*, given that
    *ss-RSSI-Measurement* is configured.

\- P~sharing\ factor~ = 3, otherwise.

where,

If the high layer in TS 38.331 \[2\] signaling of *smtc2* is present,
T~SMTCperiod~ follows *smtc2*; Otherwise T~SMTCperiod~ follows *smtc1.*
T~SMTCperiod~ is the shortest SMTC period among all CCs in the same FR2
band, provided the SMTC offset of all CCs in FR2 have the same offset.

If the high layer in TS 38.331 \[2\] signaling of *smtc2* is present,
T~SMTCperiod~ follows *smtc2*; Otherwise T~SMTCperiod~ follows *smtc1.*

Longer evaluation period would be expected if the combination of RLM-RS
resource, SMTC occasion and measurement gap configurations does not meet
previous conditions.

For either an FR1 or FR2 serving cell, longer evaluation period would be
expected during the period T~identify\_CGI~ when the UE is requested to
decode an NR CGI.

For either an FR1 or FR2 serving cell, longer evaluation period would be
expected during the period T~identify\_CGI,E-UTRAN~ when the UE is
requested to decode an LTE CGI.

Table 8.1.2.2-1: Evaluation period T~Evaluate\_out\_SSB~ and
T~Evaluate\_in\_SSB~ for FR1

  Configuration                                                                                    T~Evaluate\_out\_SSB~ (ms)                    T~Evaluate\_in\_SSB~ (ms)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------
  no DRX                                                                                           Max(200, Ceil(10 × P) × T~SSB~)               Max(100, Ceil(5 × P) × T~SSB~)
  DRX cycle≤320ms                                                                                  Max(200, Ceil(15 × P) × Max(T~DRX~,T~SSB~))   Max(100, Ceil(7.5 × P) × Max(T~DRX~,T~SSB~))
  DRX cycle\>320ms                                                                                 Ceil(10 × P) × T~DRX~                         Ceil(5 × P) × T~DRX~
  NOTE: T~SSB~ is the periodicity of the SSB configured for RLM. T~DRX~ is the DRX cycle length.                                                 

Table 8.1.2.2-2: Evaluation period T~Evaluate\_out\_SSB~ and
T~Evaluate\_in\_SSB~ for FR2

  Configuration                                                                                    T~Evaluate\_out\_SSB~ (ms)                        T~Evaluate\_in\_SSB~ (ms)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------
  no DRX                                                                                           Max(200, Ceil(10 × P × N) × T~SSB~)               Max(100, Ceil(5 × P × N) × T~SSB~)
  DRX cycle≤320ms                                                                                  Max(200, Ceil(15 × P × N) × Max(T~DRX~,T~SSB~))   Max(100, Ceil(7.5 × P × N) × Max(T~DRX~,T~SSB~))
  DRX cycle\>320ms                                                                                 Ceil(10 × P × N) × T~DRX~                         Ceil(5 × P × N) × T~DRX~
  NOTE: T~SSB~ is the periodicity of the SSB configured for RLM. T~DRX~ is the DRX cycle length.                                                     

#### 8.1.2.3 Measurement restrictions for SSB based RLM

The UE is required to be capable of measuring SSB for RLM without
measurement gaps. The UE is required to perform the SSB measurements
with measurement restrictions as described in the following scenarios.

For FR1, when the SSB for RLM is in the same OFDM symbol as CSI-RS for
RLM, BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement,

\- If SSB and CSI-RS have same SCS, UE shall be able to measure the SSB
for RLM without any restriction;

\- If SSB and CSI-RS have different SCS,

\- If UE supports *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology*, UE shall be
able to measure the SSB for RLM without any restriction;

\- If UE does not support *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology*, UE is
required to measure one of but not both SSB for RLM and CSI-RS. Longer
measurement period for SSB based RLM is expected, and no requirements
are defined.

For FR2, when the SSB for RLM measurement on one CC is in the same OFDM
symbol as CSI-RS for RLM, BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement on the same CC
or different CCs in the same band, UE is required to measure one of but
not both SSB for RLM and CSI-RS. Longer measurement period for SSB based
RLM is expected, and no requirements are defined.

For FR2, there is no measurement restriction allowed when the network
configures mixed numerology between SSB for RLM measurement on one FR2
band and CSI-RS for RLM, BFD, CBD, L1-RSRP or L1-SINR measurement on the
other FR2 band, provided that UE is capable of independent beam
management on this FR2 band pair.

### 8.1.3 Requirements for CSI-RS based radio link monitoring

#### 8.1.3.1 Introduction

The requirements in this clause apply for each CSI-RS based RLM-RS
resource configured for PCell or PSCell, provided that the CSI-RS
configured for RLM is actually transmitted within UE active DL BWP
during the entire evaluation period specified in clause 8.1.3.2. UE is
not expected to perform radio link monitoring measurements on the CSI-RS
configured as RLM-RS if the CSI-RS is not in the active TCI state of any
CORESET configured in the UE active BWP.

Table 8.1.3.1-1: PDCCH transmission parameters for out-of-sync
evaluation

  Attribute                                                             Value for BLER Configuration \#0
  --------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------
  DCI format                                                            1-0
  Number of control OFDM symbols                                        2
  Aggregation level (CCE)                                               8
  Ratio of hypothetical PDCCH RE energy to average CSI-RS RE energy     4dB
  Ratio of hypothetical PDCCH DMRS energy to average CSI-RS RE energy   4dB
  Bandwidth (PRBs)                                                      48
  Sub-carrier spacing (kHz)                                             SCS of the active DL BWP
  DMRS precoder granularity                                             REG bundle size
  REG bundle size                                                       6
  CP length                                                             Normal
  Mapping from REG to CCE                                               Distributed

Table 8.1.3.1-2: PDCCH transmission parameters for in-sync evaluation

  Attribute                                                             Value for BLER Configuration \#0
  --------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------
  DCI payload size                                                      1-0
  Number of control OFDM symbols                                        2
  Aggregation level (CCE)                                               4
  Ratio of hypothetical PDCCH RE energy to average CSI-RS RE energy     0dB
  Ratio of hypothetical PDCCH DMRS energy to average CSI-RS RE energy   0dB
  Bandwidth (PRBs)                                                      48
  Sub-carrier spacing (kHz)                                             SCS of the active DL BWP
  DMRS precoder granularity                                             REG bundle size
  REG bundle size                                                       6
  CP length                                                             Normal
  Mapping from REG to CCE                                               Distributed

#### 8.1.3.2 Minimum requirement

UE shall be able to evaluate whether the downlink radio link quality on
the configured RLM-RS resource estimated over the last
T~Evaluate\_out\_CSI-RS~ ms period becomes worse than the threshold
Q~out\_CSI-RS~ within T~Evaluate\_out\_CSI-RS~ ms evaluation period.

UE shall be able to evaluate whether the downlink radio link quality on
the configured RLM-RS resource estimated over the last
T~Evaluate\_in\_CSI-RS~ ms period becomes better than the threshold
Q~in\_CSI-RS~ within T~Evaluate\_in\_CSI-RS~ ms evaluation period.

\- T~Evaluate\_out\_CSI-RS~ and T~Evaluate\_in\_CSI-RS~ are defined in
Table 8.1.3.2-1 for FR1.

\- T~Evaluate\_out\_CSI-RS~ and T~Evaluate\_in\_CSI-RS~ are defined in
Table 8.1.3.2-2 for FR2 with scaling factor N=1.

The requirements of T~Evaluate\_out\_CSI-RS~ and T~Evaluate\_in\_CSI-RS~
apply provided that the CSI-RS for RLM is not in a resource set
configured with repetition ON. The requirements do not apply when the
CSI-RS resource in the active TCI state of CORESET is the same CSI-RS
resource for RLM and the TCI state information of the CSI-RS resource is
not given, wherein the TCI state information means QCL Type-D to SSB for
L1-RSRP or CSI-RS with repetition ON.

For FR1,

\- $P = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{\text{MGRP}}}$, when in the
monitored cell there are measurement gaps configured for
intra-frequency, inter-frequency or inter-RAT measurements, and these
measurement gaps are overlapping with some but not all occasions of the
CSI-RS; and

\- P=1 when in the monitored cell there are no measurement gaps
overlapping with any occasion of the CSI-RS.

For FR2,

\- P=1, when the RLM-RS resource is not overlapped with measurement gap
and also not overlapped with SMTC occasion.

\- $P = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{\text{MGRP}}}$, when the RLM-RS
resource is partially overlapped with measurement gap and the RLM-RS
resource is not overlapped with SMTC occasion (T~CSI-RS~ \< MGRP)

\- $P = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{T_{\text{SMTCperiod}}}}$, when
the RLM-RS resource is not overlapped with measurement gap and the
RLM-RS resource is partially overlapped with SMTC occasion (T~CSI-RS~ \<
T~SMTCperiod~).

\- P = P~sharing\ factor~, when the RLM-RS resource is not overlapped
with measurement gap and RLM-RS resource is fully overlapped with SMTC
occasion (T~CSI-RS~ = T~SMTCperiod~).

\-
$P = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{\text{MGRP}}\  - \ \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{T_{\text{SMTCperiod}}}}$,
when the RLM-RS resource is partially overlapped with measurement gap
and the RLM-RS resource is partially overlapped with SMTC occasion
(T~CSI-RS~ \< T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC occasion is not overlapped with
measurement gap and

\- T~SMTCperiod~ ≠ MGRP or

\- T~SMTCperiod~ = MGRP and T~CSI-RS~ \< 0.5 × T~SMTCperiod~

\-
$P = \frac{P_{\text{sharing\ factor}}}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{\text{MGRP}}}$,
when the RLM-RS resource is partially overlapped with measurement gap
and the RLM-RS resource is partially overlapped with SMTC occasion
(T~CSI-RS~ \< T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC occasion is not overlapped with
measurement gap and T~SMTCperiod~ = MGRP and T~CSI-RS~ = 0.5 ×
T~SMTCperiod~

\-
$P = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{Min(MGRP,\ T_{\text{SMTCperiod}})}}$,
when the RLM-RS resource is partially overlapped with measurement gap
and the RLM-RS resource is partially overlapped with SMTC occasion
(T~CSI-RS~ \< T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC occasion is partially or fully
overlapped with measurement gap

\-
$P = \frac{P_{\text{sharing\ factor}}}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{\text{MGRP}}}$,
when the RLM-RS resource is partially overlapped with measurement gap
and the RLM-RS resource is fully overlapped with SMTC occasion
(T~CSI-RS~ = T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC occasion is partially overlapped
with measurement gap (T~SMTCperiod~ \< MGRP)

\- P~sharing\ factor~ = 1, if the RLM-RS resource outside measurement
gap is

\- not overlapped with the SSB symbols indicated by *SSB-ToMeasure* and
1 data symbol before each consecutive SSB symbols indicated by
*SSB-ToMeasure* and 1 data symbol after each consecutive SSB symbols
indicated by *SSB-ToMeasure*, given that *SSB-ToMeasure* is configured,
where the *SSB-ToMeasure* is the union set of *SSB-ToMeasure* from all
the configured measurement objects merged on the same serving carrier,
and,

\- not overlapped by the RSSI symbols indicated by *ss-RSSI-Measurement*
and 1 data symbol before each RSSI symbol indicated by
*ss-RSSI-Measurement* and 1 data symbol after each RSSI symbol indicated
by *ss-RSSI-Measurement*, given that *ss-RSSI-Measurement* is
configured.

> \- P~sharing\ factor~ = 3, otherwise.
>
> where,
>
> If the high layer in TS 38.331 \[2\] signaling of *smtc2* is present,
> T~SMTCperiod~ follows *smtc2*; Otherwise T~SMTCperiod~ follows
> *smtc1.* T~SMTCperiod~ is the shortest SMTC period among all CCs in
> the same FR2 band, provided the SMTC offset of all CCs in FR2 have the
> same offset.

If the high layer in TS 38.331 \[2\] signaling of *smtc2* is present,
T~SMTCperiod~ follows *smtc2*; Otherwise T~SMTCperiod~ follows *smtc1.*

Note: The overlap between CSI-RS for RLM and SMTC means that CSI-RS
based RLM is within the SMTC window duration.

Longer evaluation period would be expected if the combination of RLM-RS
resource, SMTC occasion and measurement gap configurations does not meet
previous conditions.

For either an FR1 or FR2 serving cell, longer evaluation period would be
expected during the period T~identify\_CGI~ when the UE is requested to
decode an NR CGI.

For either an FR1 or FR2 serving cell, longer evaluation period would be
expected during the period T~identify\_CGI,E-UTRAN~ when the UE is
requested to decode an LTE CGI.

The values of M~out~ and M~in~ used in Table 8.1.3.2-1 and Table
8.1.3.2-2 are defined as:

> \- M~out~ = 20 and M~in~ = 10, if the CSI-RS resource configured for
> RLM is transmitted with higher layer CSI-RS parameter *density* \[6,
> clause 7.4.1\] set to 3 and over the bandwidth ≥ 24 PRBs.

Table 8.1.3.2-1: Evaluation period T~Evaluate\_out\_CSI-RS~ and
T~Evaluate\_in\_CSI-RS~ for FR1

  Configuration                                                                                                                                                                                           T~Evaluate\_out\_CSI-RS~ (ms)                          T~Evaluate\_in\_CSI-RS~ (ms)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------ -----------------------------------------------------
  no DRX                                                                                                                                                                                                  Max(200, Ceil(M~out~×P)×T~CSI-RS~)                     Max(100, Ceil(M~in~×P) × T~CSI-RS~)
  DRX ≤ 320ms                                                                                                                                                                                             Max(200, Ceil(1.5×M~out~×P)× Max(T~DRX~, T~CSI-RS~))   Max(100, Ceil(1.5×M~in~×P)× Max(T~DRX~, T~CSI-RS~))
  DRX \> 320ms                                                                                                                                                                                            Ceil(M~out~×P) × T~DRX~                                Ceil(M~in~×P) × T~DRX~
  NOTE: T~CSI-RS~ is the periodicity of the CSI-RS resource configured for RLM. The requirements in this table apply for T~CSI-RS~ equal to 5 ms, 10ms, 20 ms or 40 ms. T~DRX~ is the DRX cycle length.                                                          

Table 8.1.3.2-2: Evaluation period T~Evaluate\_out\_CSI-RS~ and
T~Evaluate\_in\_CSI-RS~ for FR2

  Configuration                                                                                                                                                                                            T~Evaluate\_out\_CSI-RS~ (ms)                            T~Evaluate\_in\_CSI-RS~ (ms)
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------
  no DRX                                                                                                                                                                                                   Max(200, Ceil(M~out~×P×N)×T~CSI-RS~)                     Max(100, Ceil(M~in~×P×N) × T~CSI-RS~)
  DRX ≤ 320ms                                                                                                                                                                                              Max(200, Ceil(1.5×M~out~×P×N)× Max(T~DRX~, T~CSI-RS~))   Max(100, Ceil(1.5×M~in~×P×N)× Max(T~DRX~, T~CSI-RS~))
  DRX \> 320ms                                                                                                                                                                                             Ceil(M~out~×P×N) × T~DRX~                                Ceil(M~in~×P×N) × T~DRX~
  NOTE: T~CSI-RS~ is the periodicity of the CSI-RS resource configured for RLM. The requirements in this table apply for T~CSI-RS~ equal to 5 ms, 10 ms, 20 ms or 40 ms. T~DRX~ is the DRX cycle length.                                                            

#### 8.1.3.3 Measurement restrictions for CSI-RS based RLM

The UE is required to be capable of measuring CSI-RS for RLM without
measurement gaps. The UE is required to perform the CSI-RS measurements
with measurement restrictions as described in the following clauses.

For both FR1 and FR2, when the CSI-RS for RLM is in the same OFDM symbol
as SSB for RLM, BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement, UE is not required to
receive CSI-RS for RLM in the PRBs that overlap with an SSB.

For FR1, when the SSB for RLM, BFD, CBD, or L1-RSRP measurement is
within the active BWP and has same SCS than CSI-RS for RLM, the UE shall
be able to perform CSI-RS measurement without restrictions.

For FR1, when the SSB for RLM, BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement is within
the active BWP and has different SCS than CSI-RS for RLM, the UE shall
be able to perform CSI-RS measurement with restrictions according to its
capabilities:

\- If the UE supports *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology* the UE
shall be able to perform CSI-RS for RLM measurement without
restrictions.

\- If the UE does not support *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology*, UE
is required to measure one of but not both CSI-RS for RLM and SSB.
Longer measurement period for CSI-RS based RLM is expected, and no
requirements are defined.

For FR1, when the CSI-RS for RLM is in the same OFDM symbol as another
CSI-RS for RLM, BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement, UE shall be able to
measure the CSI-RS for RLM without any restriction.

For FR2, when the CSI-RS for RLM measurement on one CC is in the same
OFDM symbol as SSB for RLM, BFD, or L1-RSRP measurement on the same CC
or different CCs in the same band, or in the same symbol as SSB for CBD
measurement on the same CC or different CCs in the same band when beam
failure is detected, UE is required to measure one of but not both
CSI-RS for RLM and SSB. Longer measurement period for CSI-RS based RLM
is expected, and no requirements are defined.

For FR2, when the CSI-RS for RLM measurement on one CC is in the same
OFDM symbol as another CSI-RS for RLM, BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement
on the same CC or different CCs in the same band,

\- In the following cases, UE is required to measure one of but not both
CSI-RS for RLM and the other CSI-RS. Longer measurement period for
CSI-RS based RLM is expected, and no requirements are defined.

\- The CSI-RS for RLM or the other CSI-RS in a resource set configured
with repetition ON, or

\- The other CSI-RS is configured in q1 and beam failure is detected, or

\- The two CSI-RS-es are not QCL-ed w.r.t. QCL-TypeD, or the QCL
information is not known to UE,

\- Otherwise, UE shall be able to measure the CSI-RS for RLM without any
restriction.

### 8.1.4 Minimum requirement at transitions

When the UE transitions between DRX and no DRX or when DRX cycle
periodicity changes, for each RLM-RS resource, for a duration of time
equal to the evaluation period corresponding to the second mode after
the transition occurs, the UE shall use an evaluation period that is no
less than the minimum of evaluation period corresponding to the first
mode and the second mode. Subsequent to this duration, the UE shall use
an evaluation period corresponding to the second mode for each RLM-RS
resource. This requirement shall be applied to both out-of-sync
evaluation and in-sync evaluation of the monitored cell.

When the UE transitions from a first configuration of RLM resources to a
second configuration of RLM resources that is different from the first
configuration, for each RLM resource present in the second
configuration, for a duration of time equal to the evaluation period
corresponding to the second configuration after the transition occurs,
the UE shall use an evaluation period that is no less than the minimum
of evaluation periods corresponding to the first configuration and the
second configuration. Subsequent to this duration, the UE shall use an
evaluation period corresponding to the second configuration for each RLM
resource present in the second configuration. This requirement shall be
applied to both out-of-sync evaluation and in-sync evaluation of the
monitored cell.

When the UE transitions from a first configuration of active TCI state
of the CORESET to a second configuration of active TCI state of the
CORESET, for each CSI-RS for RLM present in the second configuration,
the UE shall use an evaluation period corresponding to the second
configuration from the time of transition. This requirement shall be
applied to both out-of-sync evaluation and in-sync evaluation of the
monitored cell.

### 8.1.5 Minimum requirement for UE turning off the transmitter

The transmitter power of the UE in the monitored cell shall be turned
off within 40ms after expiry of T310 timer as specified in TS 38.331
\[2\].

### 8.1.6 Minimum requirement for L1 indication

When the downlink radio link quality on all the configured RLM-RS
resources is worse than Q~out~, layer 1 of the UE shall send an
out-of-sync indication for the cell to the higher layers. A layer 3
filter shall be applied to the out-of-sync indications as specified in
TS 38.331 \[2\].

When the downlink radio link quality on at least one of the configured
RLM-RS resources is better than Q~in~, layer 1 of the UE shall send an
in-sync indication for the cell to the higher layers. A layer 3 filter
shall be applied to the in-sync indications as specified in
TS 38.331 \[2\].

The out-of-sync and in-sync evaluations for the configured RLM-RS
resources shall be performed as specified in clause 5 in
TS 38.213 \[3\]. Two successive indications from layer 1 shall be
separated by at least T~Indication\_interval~.

When DRX is not used T~Indication\_interval~ is max(10ms, T~RLM-RS,M~),
where T~RLM,M~ is the shortest periodicity of all configured RLM-RS
resources for the monitored cell, which corresponds to T~SSB~ specified
in clause 8.1.2 if the RLM-RS resource is SSB, or T~CSI-RS~ specified in
clause 8.1.3 if the RLM-RS resource is CSI-RS.

In case DRX is used, T~Indication\_interval~ is Max(10ms, 1.5 ×
DRX\_cycle\_length, 1.5 × T~RLM-RS,M~)) if DRX cycle\_length is less
than or equal to 320ms, and T~Indication\_interval~ is
DRX\_cycle\_length if DRX cycle\_length is greater than 320ms. Upon
start of T310 timer as specified in TS 38.331 \[2\], the UE shall
monitor the configured RLM-RS resources for recovery using the
evaluation period and layer 1 indication interval corresponding to the
no DRX mode until the expiry or stop of T310 timer.

### 8.1.7 Scheduling availability of UE during radio link monitoring

When the reference signal to be measured for RLM has different
subcarrier spacing than PDSCH/PDCCH or is on frequency range 2, there
are restrictions on the scheduling availability as described in the
following clauses.

#### 8.1.7.1 Scheduling availability of UE performing radio link monitoring with a same subcarrier spacing as PDSCH/PDCCH on FR1

There are no scheduling restrictions due to radio link monitoring
performed with a same subcarrier spacing as PDSCH/PDCCH on FR1.

#### 8.1.7.2 Scheduling availability of UE performing radio link monitoring with a different subcarrier spacing than PDSCH/PDCCH on FR1

For UEs which support *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology* \[14\]
there are no restrictions on scheduling availability due to radio link
monitoring based on SSB as RLM-RS. For UEs which do not support
*simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology* \[14\] the following restrictions
apply due to radio link monitoring based on SSB as RLM -RS.

> \- The UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH, PUSCH or SRS or receive
> PDCCH, PDSCH or CSI-RS for tracking or CSI-RS for CQI on SSB symbols
> to be measured for radio link monitoring.

When intra-band carrier aggregation in FR1 is performed, the scheduling
restrictions on FR1 serving PCell or PSCell applies to all serving cells
in the same band on the symbols that fully or partially overlap with the
restricted symbols. When inter-band carrier aggregation within FR1 is
performed, there are no scheduling restrictions on FR1 serving cell(s)
in the bands due to radio link monitoring performed on FR1 serving PCell
or PSCell in different bands.

#### 8.1.7.3 Scheduling availability of UE performing radio link monitoring on FR2

The following scheduling restriction applies due to radio link
monitoring on an FR2 serving PCell and/or PSCell.

> \- If the RLM-RS is CSI-RS which is type-D QCLed with active TCI state
> for PDCCH or PDSCH, and the CSI-RS is not in a CSI-RS resource set
> with repetition ON,
>
> \- There are no scheduling restrictions due to radio link monitoring
> based on the CSI-RS.
>
> \- Otherwise
>
> \- The UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH, PUSCH or SRS or receive
> PDCCH, PDSCH or CSI-RS for tracking or CSI-RS for CQI on RLM-RS
> symbols to be measured for radio link monitoring.

When intra-band carrier aggregation in FR2 is performed, the scheduling
restrictions on FR2 serving PCell or PSCell applies to all serving cells
in the same band on the symbols that fully or partially overlap with
restricted symbols.

When inter-band carrier aggregation in FR2 is performed, there are no
scheduling restrictions on FR2 serving cell(s) in the bands for the
following cases, provided that UE is capable of independent beam
management on this FR2 band pair:

when performing radio link monitoring performed on FR2 serving PCell or
PSCell in different bands,

\- the UE is configured with same or different numerology between SSB on
one FR2 band and data on the other FR2 band.

For FR2, if following conditions are met,

\- UE has been notified about system information update through paging,

\- The gap between UE's reception of PDCCH that UE monitors in the
Type2-PDCCH CSS set and that notifies system information update, and the
PDCCH that UE monitors in the Type0-PDCCH CSS set, is greater than 2
slots,

For the SSB for RLM and CORESET for RMSI scheduling multiplexing
patterns 3, UE is expected to receive the PDCCH that UE monitors in the
Type0-PDCCH CSS set, and the corresponding PDSCH, on SSB symbols to be
measured for RLM; and

For the SSB for RLM and CORESET for RMSI scheduling multiplexing
patterns 2, UE is expected to receive PDSCH that corresponds to the
PDCCH that UE monitors in the Type0-PDCCH CSS set, on SSB symbols to be
measured for RLM.

#### 8.1.7.4 Scheduling availability of UE performing radio link monitoring on FR1 or FR2 in case of FR1-FR2 inter-band CA and NR-DC

There are no scheduling restrictions on FR1 serving cell(s) due to radio
link monitoring performed on FR2 serving PCell and/or PSCell.

There are no scheduling restrictions on FR2 serving cell(s) due to radio
link monitoring performed on FR1 serving PCell and/or PSCell.

8.1A Radio Link Monitoring with CCA on Target Frequency
-------------------------------------------------------

### 8.1A.1 Introduction

The requirements in clause 8.1A apply for radio link monitoring on a
carrier frequency with CCA for cells:

\- PCell in SA NR operation mode,

\- PSCell in EN-DC operation mode.

The UE shall monitor the downlink radio link quality based on the
reference signal configured as RLM-RS resource(s) in order to detect the
downlink radio link quality of the PCell and PSCell as specified in
TS 38.213 \[3\]. The configured RLM-RS resources can be all SSBs, or all
CSI-RSs, or a mix of SSBs and CSI-RSs. UE is not required to perform RLM
outside the active DL BWP.

On each RLM-RS resource, the UE shall estimate the downlink radio link
quality and compare it to the thresholds Q~out,CCA~ and Q~in,CCA~ for
the purpose of monitoring downlink radio link quality of the cell.

The threshold Q~out,CCA~ is defined as the level at which the downlink
radio link cannot be reliably received and shall correspond to the
out-of-sync block error rate (BLER~out,CCA~) as defined in Table
8.1A.1-1. For SSB based radio link monitoring, Q~out\_SSB,CCA~ is
derived based on the hypothetical PDCCH transmission parameters listed
in Table 8.1A.2.1-1.

The threshold Q~in,CCA~ is defined as the level at which the downlink
radio link quality can be received with significantly higher reliability
than at Q~out,CCA~ and shall correspond to the in-sync block error rate
(BLER~in~) as defined in Table 8.1A.1-1. For SSB based radio link
monitoring, Q~in\_SSB,CCA~ is derived based on the hypothetical PDCCH
transmission parameters listed in Table 8.1A.2.1-2.

The out-of-sync block error rate (BLER~out,CCA~) and in-sync block error
rate (BLER~in,CCA~) are determined from the network configuration via
parameter *rlmInSyncOutOfSyncThreshold* signalled by higher layers. When
UE is not configured with *rlmInSyncOutOfSyncThreshold* from the
network, UE determines out-of-sync and in-sync block error rates from
Configuration \#0 in Table 8.1A.1-1 as default. All requirements in
clause 8.1A are applicable for BLER Configuration \#0 in Table 8.1A.1-1.

Table 8.1A.1-1: Out-of-sync and in-sync block error rates

  Configuration   BLER~out,CCA~   BLER~in,CCA~
  --------------- --------------- --------------
  0               10%             2%

UE shall be able to monitor up to N~RLM~ RLM-RS resources of the same or
different types in each corresponding carrier frequency range, depending
on a maximum number L~max~ of SSBs per half frame according to TS 38.213
\[3\], where N~RLM~ is specified in Table 8.1A.1-2, and meet the
requirements as specified in clause 8.1A. UE is not required to meet the
requirements in clause 8.1A if RLM-RS is not configured and no TCI state
for PDCCH is activated.

Table 8.1A.1-2: Maximum number of RLM-RS resources N~RLM~

  L~max~   Maximum number of RLM-RS resources, N~RLM~
  -------- --------------------------------------------
  8        4

The requirements in clause 8.1A apply for any *channelAccessMode*
configuration \[TS 38.331, 2\].

In the requirements of clause 8.1A, the term RLM-RS SSB occasion not
available at the UE refers to when the RLM-RS SSB is configured by gNB
in a cell on a carrier frequency subject to CCA, but the first two
successive candidate SSB positions for the same SSB index within the set
of configured RLM-RS resources are not available at the UE due to DL CCA
failures at gNB during the corresponding evaluation period; otherwise
the RLM-RS SSB is considered as available at the UE.

### 8.1A.2 Requirements for SSB Based Radio Link Monitoring

#### 8.1A.2.1 Introduction

The requirements in this clause apply for each SSB based RLM-RS resource
configured for PCell or PSCell, provided that the SSB configured for RLM
are actually configured to be transmitted within UE active DL BWP during
the entire evaluation period specified in clause 8.1A.2.2 but
occasionally may not be transmitted due to CCA operation.

Table 8.1A.2.1-1: PDCCH transmission parameters for out-of-sync
evaluation

  Attribute                                                          Value for BLER Configuration \#0
  ------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------
  DCI format                                                         1-0
  Number of control OFDM symbols                                     2
  Aggregation level (CCE)                                            8
  Ratio of hypothetical PDCCH RE energy to average SSS RE energy     4 dB
  Ratio of hypothetical PDCCH DMRS energy to average SSS RE energy   4 dB
  Bandwidth (PRBs)                                                   24
  Sub-carrier spacing (kHz)                                          SCS of the active DL BWP
  DMRS precoder granularity                                          REG bundle size
  REG bundle size                                                    6
  CP length                                                          Normal
  Mapping from REG to CCE                                            Distributed

Table 8.1A.2.1-2: PDCCH transmission parameters for in-sync evaluation

  Attribute                                                          Value for BLER Configuration \#0
  ------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------
  DCI payload size                                                   1-0
  Number of control OFDM symbols                                     2
  Aggregation level (CCE)                                            4
  Ratio of hypothetical PDCCH RE energy to average SSS RE energy     0dB
  Ratio of hypothetical PDCCH DMRS energy to average SSS RE energy   0dB
  Bandwidth (PRBs)                                                   24
  Sub-carrier spacing (kHz)                                          SCS of the active DL BWP
  DMRS precoder granularity                                          REG bundle size
  REG bundle size                                                    6
  CP length                                                          Normal
  Mapping from REG to CCE                                            Distributed

#### 8.1A.2.2 Minimum Requirement

UE shall be able to evaluate whether the downlink radio link quality on
the configured RLM-RS resource estimated over the last
T~Evaluate\_out\_SSB,CCA~ \[ms\] period becomes worse than the threshold
Q~out\_SSB,CCA~ within T~Evaluate\_out\_SSB,CCA~ \[ms\] evaluation
period.

UE shall be able to evaluate whether the downlink radio link quality on
the configured RLM-RS resource estimated over the last
T~Evaluate\_in\_SSB,CCA~ \[ms\] period becomes better than the threshold
Q~in\_SSB,CCA~ within T~Evaluate\_in\_SSB,CCA~ \[ms\] evaluation period.
During the in-sync evaluation procedure, layer 1 of the UE shall not
send any in-sync indication for the cell to the higher layers when L~in~
exceeds L~in,max~, where L~in~ and L~in,max~ are defined in Table
8.1A.2.2-1.

T~Evaluate\_out\_SSB,CCA~ and T~Evaluate\_in\_SSB,CCA~ are defined in
Table 8.1A.2.2-1, where

\- $P = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{\text{MRGP}}}$, when in the
monitored cell there are measurement gaps configured for
intra-frequency, inter-frequency or inter-RAT measurements, and these
measurement gaps are overlapping with some but not all occasions of the
SSB RLM-RS resources; and

\- P=1 when in the monitored cell there are no measurement gaps
overlapping with any occasion of the SSB RLM-RS resources.

Longer evaluation period would be expected if the combination of RLM-RS,
and measurement gap configurations does not meet previous conditions.

Table 8.1A.2.2-1: Evaluation period T~Evaluate\_out\_SSB,CCA~ and
T~Evaluate\_in\_SSB,CCA~

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Configuration  | T~Evaluate\    | T~Evaluate     |                |
|                | _out\_SSB,CCA~ | \_in\_SSB,CCA~ |                |
|                | (ms)           | (ms)           |                |
+================+================+================+================+
|                | RLM-RS SSB     | RLM-RS SSB     |                |
|                | Es/Iot^Note4^  | Es/Iot ^Note4^ |                |
|                | ≥-7 dB         | \<-7 dB        |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| no DRX         | Max(200,       | Max(200,       | Max(100,       |
|                | Ceil(1         | Ceil(2         | Ceil((5+L~in~  |
|                | 7\*P)\*T~SSB~) | 4\*P)\*T~SSB~) | )\*P)\*T~SSB~) |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| DRX cycle≤320  | Max(200,       | Max(200,       | Max(100,       |
|                | Ceil(1.5\      | Ceil(1.5\      | Ce             |
|                | *15\*P)\*Max(T | *20\*P)\*Max(T | il(1.5\*(5+L~i |
|                | ~DRX~,T~SSB~)) | ~DRX~,T~SSB~)) | n~)\*P)\*Max(T |
|                |                |                | ~DRX~,T~SSB~)) |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| DRX cycle\>320 | Ceil(          | Ceil(          | Ceil((5+L~in   |
|                | 13\*P)\*T~DRX~ | 16\*P)\*T~DRX~ | ~)\*P)\*T~DRX~ |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| NOTE 1: T~SSB~ |                |                |                |
| is the         |                |                |                |
| periodicity of |                |                |                |
| the SSB        |                |                |                |
| configured for |                |                |                |
| RLM. T~DRX~ is |                |                |                |
| the DRX cycle  |                |                |                |
| length.        |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 2: When   |                |                |                |
| DRX is not     |                |                |                |
| configured,    |                |                |                |
| L~in~ is the   |                |                |                |
| number of      |                |                |                |
| RLM-RS SSB     |                |                |                |
| occasions      |                |                |                |
| which are not  |                |                |                |
| available at   |                |                |                |
| the UE during  |                |                |                |
| T~Evaluate\    |                |                |                |
| _in\_SSB,CCA~, |                |                |                |
| where L~in~ ≤  |                |                |                |
| L~in,max~.     |                |                |                |
| When DRX is    |                |                |                |
| configured,    |                |                |                |
| L~in~ is the   |                |                |                |
| number of DRX  |                |                |                |
| cycles in      |                |                |                |
| which at least |                |                |                |
| one RLM-RS SSB |                |                |                |
| occasion is    |                |                |                |
| not available  |                |                |                |
| at the UE      |                |                |                |
| during         |                |                |                |
| T~Evaluate\    |                |                |                |
| _in\_SSB,CCA~, |                |                |                |
| where L~in~ ≤  |                |                |                |
| L~in,max~. The |                |                |                |
| UE is not      |                |                |                |
| required to    |                |                |                |
| determine the  |                |                |                |
| availability   |                |                |                |
| of SSB         |                |                |                |
| occasions more |                |                |                |
| frequent than\ |                |                |                |
| Once per       |                |                |                |
| Max(10ms, P \* |                |                |                |
| T~SSB~) if no  |                |                |                |
| DRX is used,\  |                |                |                |
| Once per       |                |                |                |
| Max(10ms,      |                |                |                |
| Ceil(1.5 \* P) |                |                |                |
| \* Max(T~DRX~, |                |                |                |
| T~SSB~)) if    |                |                |                |
| DRX cycle ≤    |                |                |                |
| 320ms,\        |                |                |                |
| Once per P \*  |                |                |                |
| T~DRX~ if DRX  |                |                |                |
| cycle \>       |                |                |                |
| 320ms.         |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 3:        |                |                |                |
| L~in,max~=7    |                |                |                |
| for            |                |                |                |
| Max(           |                |                |                |
| T~DRX~,T~SSB~) |                |                |                |
| ≤ 40 assuming  |                |                |                |
| T~DRX~=0 for   |                |                |                |
| non-DRX case,  |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| L~in,max~=5    |                |                |                |
| for            |                |                |                |
| 40\<Max(T~DRX  |                |                |                |
| ~,T~SSB~)≤320, |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| L~in,max~=3    |                |                |                |
| for            |                |                |                |
| T~DRX~\>320.   |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 4: RLM-RS |                |                |                |
| SSB Es/Iot is  |                |                |                |
| the averaged   |                |                |                |
| Es/Iot over    |                |                |                |
| the most       |                |                |                |
| recent         |                |                |                |
| previous       |                |                |                |
| out-of-sync    |                |                |                |
| evaluation     |                |                |                |
| period.        |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

8.1A.2.3 Measurement Restrictions for SSB based RLM

The UE is required to be capable of measuring SSB for RLM without
measurement gaps. The UE is required to perform the SSB measurements
with measurement restrictions as described in the following clauses.

When the SSB for RLM is in the same OFDM symbol as CSI-RS for RLM, BFD,
CBD or L1-RSRP measurement,

\- If SSB and CSI-RS have same SCS, UE shall be able to measure the SSB
for RLM without any restriction;

\- If SSB and CSI-RS have different SCS,

\- If UE supports *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology*, UE shall be
able to measure the SSB for RLM without any restriction;

\- If UE does not support *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology*, UE is
required to measure SSB for RLM.

### 8.1A.3 Minimum requirement at transitions

When the UE transitions between DRX and no DRX or when DRX cycle
periodicity changes, for each RLM-RS resource, for a duration of time
equal to the evaluation period corresponding to the second mode after
the transition occurs, the UE shall use an evaluation period that is no
less than the minimum of evaluation period corresponding to the first
mode and the second mode. Subsequent to this duration, the UE shall use
an evaluation period corresponding to the second mode for each RLM-RS
resource. This requirement shall be applied to both out-of-sync
evaluation and in-sync evaluation of the monitored cell.

When the UE transitions from a first configuration of RLM resources to a
second configuration of RLM resources that is different from the first
configuration, for each RLM resource present in the second
configuration, for a duration of time equal to the evaluation period
corresponding to the second configuration after the transition occurs,
the UE shall use an evaluation period that is no less than the minimum
of evaluation periods corresponding to the first configuration and the
second configuration. Subsequent to this duration, the UE shall use an
evaluation period corresponding to the second configuration for each RLM
resource present in the second configuration. This requirement shall be
applied to both out-of-sync evaluation and in-sync evaluation of the
monitored cell.

### 8.1A.4 Minimum requirement for UE turning off the transmitter

The transmitter power of the UE in the monitored cell shall be turned
off within 40ms after expiry of T310 timer as specified in TS 38.331
\[2\]. The UE shall not perform CCA procedure on any of the serving
carrier frequencies with CCA after the expiry of T310.

### 8.1A.5 Minimum requirement for L1 indication

When the downlink radio link quality on all the configured RLM-RS
resources is worse than Q~out,CCA~, layer 1 of the UE shall send an
out-of-sync indication for the cell to the higher layers. A layer 3
filter shall be applied to the out-of-sync indications as specified in
TS 38.331 \[2\].

When the downlink radio link quality on at least one of the configured
RLM-RS resources is better than Q~in,CCA~, layer 1 of the UE shall send
an in-sync indication for the cell to the higher layers. A layer 3
filter shall be applied to the in-sync indications as specified in
TS 38.331 \[2\].

The out-of-sync and in-sync evaluations for the configured RLM-RS
resources shall be performed as specified in clause 5 in
TS 38.213 \[3\]. Two successive indications from layer 1 shall be
separated by at least T~Indication\_interval,CCA~.

When DRX is not used T~Indication\_interval,CCA~ is max(10ms,
T~RLM-RS,M~), where T~RLM,M~ is the shortest periodicity of all
configured RLM-RS resources for the monitored cell, which corresponds to
T~SSB~ specified in clause 8.1A.2 if the RLM-RS resource is SSB.

In case DRX is used, T~Indication\_interval,CCA~ is Max(10ms, 1.5 ×
DRX\_cycle\_length, 1.5 × T~RLM-RS,M~)) if DRX cycle\_length is less
than or equal to 320ms, and T~Indication\_interval,CCA~ is
DRX\_cycle\_length if DRX cycle\_length is greater than 320ms. Upon
start of T310 timer as specified in TS 38.331 \[2\], the UE shall
monitor the configured RLM-RS resources for recovery using the
evaluation period and layer 1 indication interval corresponding to the
no DRX mode until the expiry or stop of T310 timer.

### 8.1A.6 Scheduling availability of UE during radio link monitoring

When the reference signal to be measured for RLM on a carrier frequency
with CCA has different subcarrier spacing than PDSCH/PDCCH, there are
restrictions on the scheduling availability as described in the
following clauses.

#### 8.1A.6.1 Scheduling availability of UE performing radio link monitoring with the same subcarrier spacing as PDSCH/PDCCH

There are no scheduling restrictions due to radio link monitoring
performed with a same subcarrier spacing as PDSCH/PDCCH.

#### 8.1A.6.2 Scheduling availability of UE performing radio link monitoring with a different subcarrier spacing than PDSCH/PDCCH

For UEs which support *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology* \[14\]
there are no restrictions on scheduling availability due to radio link
monitoring based on SSB as RLM-RS. For UEs which do not support
*simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology* \[14\] the following restrictions
apply due to radio link monitoring based on SSB as RLM -RS.

\- The UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH, PUSCH or SRS or receive
PDCCH, PDSCH or CSI-RS for tracking or CSI-RS for CQI on SSB symbols to
be measured for radio link monitoring.

When intra-band carrier aggregation is performed, the scheduling
restrictions on PCell or PSCell applies to all serving cells in the same
band on the symbols that fully or partially overlap with the restricted
symbols.

8.2 Interruption
----------------

### 8.2.1 EN-DC Interruption

#### 8.2.1.1 Introduction

This clause contains the requirements related to the interruptions on
PSCell, and SCell, when

E-UTRA PCell transitions between active and non-active during DRX, or

E-UTRA PCell transitions from non-DRX to DRX, or

E-UTRA SCell in MCG or SCell in SCG is added or released, or

E-UTRA SCell in MCG or SCell(s) in SCG is activated or deactivated, or

measurements on SCC with deactivated SCell in either E-UTRA MCG or NR
SCG, or

a supplementary UL carrier or an UL carrier is configured or
de-configured, or

UL/DL active BWP is switched on PSCell or SCell in SCG, or

E-UTRA SCell in MCG or SCell(s) in SCG is directly activated and
hibernated, or

E-UTRA SCell in MCG is hibernated, or

Multiple SCells in SCG are activated or deactivated, or

SCell dormancy switches, or

CQI/RRM measurement happens during SCell dormancy, or

UE-specific CBW is changed on PSCell or SCell in SCG, or

CGI reading of an NR neighbour cell with autonomous gaps, or

CGI reading of an E-UTRA neighbour cell with autonomous gaps.

NR SRS carrier based switching, or

E-UTRA SRS carrier based switching, or

UE dynamic Tx switches between two uplink carriers.

The requirements shall apply for E-UTRA-NR DC with an E-UTRA PCell.

This clause contains interruptions where victim cell is PSCell or SCell
belonging to SCG. Requirements for interruptions requirements when the
victim cell is E-UTRA PCell or E-UTRA SCell belonging to MCG are
specified in TS 36.133 \[15\].

For a UE which does not support per-FR measurement gaps, interruptions
to the PSCell or activated SCG SCells may be caused by EUTRA PCell,
EUTRA SCells or SCells on any frequency range. For UE which support
per-FR gaps, interruptions to the PSCell or activated SCG SCells may be
caused by EUTRA PCell, EUTRA SCells or SCells on the same frequency
range as the victim cell.

#### 8.2.1.2 Requirements

##### 8.2.1.2.1 Interruptions at transitions between active and non-active during DRX

Interruption on PSCell and the activated SCell if configured due to
E-UTRA PCell transitions between active and non-active druing DRX when
PSCell or SCell is in non-DRX are allowed with up to 1% probability of
missed ACK/NACK when the configured E-UTRA PCell DRX cycle is less than
640 ms, and 0.625% probability of missed ACK/NACK is allowed when the
configured E-UTRA PCell DRX cycle is 640 ms or longer. Each interruption
shall not exceed X slot as defined in table 8.2.1.2.1-1.

Table 8.2.1.2.1-1: Interruption length X at transition between active
and non-active during DRX

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.16875in" height="0.16875in"}   NR Slot       Interruption length X (slots)   
  ------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ------------------------------- -------
                                                                length (ms)   Sync                            Async
  0                                                             1             1                               2
  1                                                             0.5           1                               2
  2                                                             0.25          3                               
  3                                                             0.125         5                               

When both E-UTRA PCell and PSCell are in DRX, no interruption is
allowed.

##### 8.2.1.2.2 Interruptions at transitions from non-DRX to DRX

Interruption on PSCell and the activated SCell if configured due to
E-UTRA PCell transitions from non-DRX to DRX when PSCell or SCell is in
non-DRX shall not exceed X slot as defined in table 8.2.1.2.1-1.

When PSCell and the activated SCell are in DRX, no interruption due to
E-UTRA PCell transitions from non-DRX to DRX is allowed.

##### 8.2.1.2.3 Interruptions at SCell addition/release

The requirements in this clause shall apply for the UE configured with
PSCell.

When one E-UTRA SCell in MCG is added or released:

\- the UE is allowed an interruption on any active serving cell in SCG:

\- of up to X1 slot, if the active serving cell is not in the same band
as the E-UTRA SCell being added or released, or

\- of up to X1 slot, if the active serving cell is in the band
overlapping or partially overlapping with the E-UTRA SCell being added
or released and UE indicates it is capable of
*interBandMRDC-WithOverlapDL-Bands-r16* on this band pair, or

\- of up to max{Y1 slot + T~SMTC\_duration~, 5ms}, if the active serving
cells are in the same band or in the band overlapping or partially
overlapping with the E-UTRA SCell being added or released, and UE does
not indicates it is capable of *interBandMRDC-WithOverlapDL-Bands-r16*
on this band pair, provided the cell specific reference signals from the
active serving cells and the E-UTRA SCell being added or released are
available in the same slot, where T~SMTC\_duration~ is the longest SMTC
duration among all above active serving cells in SCG;

Where X1 and Y1 are specified in Table 8.2.1.2.3-1.

When one SCell in SCG is added or released:

\- the UE is allowed an interruption on any active serving cell in SCG:

\- of up to X1 slot, if the active serving cell and the SCell being
added or released are in a FR1 band pair or in a FR1+FR2 band pair.

\- of up to X1 slot, if the active serving cell and the SCell being
added or released are in a FR2 band pair and UE is capable of
independent beam management on this FR2 band pair

or

\- of up to Y1 slot + T~SMTC\_duration~ if the active serving cells are
in the same band as the SCell being added or released, provided the cell
specific reference signals from the active serving cells and the SCell
being added or released are available in the same slot, where,
T~SMTC\_duration~ is

\- the longest SMTC duration among all above active serving cells in SCG
and the SCell being added when one SCell is added. If SSB configuration
(*absoluteFrequencySSB*) but no SMTC configuration is provided for the
SCell being added, the SSB transmission periodicity is assumed to be 5ms
and T~SMTC\ duration~ for the SCell being added is x ms, where x = the
number of consecutive subframes containing all SSBs in one SSB burst
transmitted by the SCell being added. If no SSB configuration
(*absoluteFrequencySSB*) nor SMTC configuration is provided for the
SCell being added, T~SMTC\ duration~ for the SCell being added is 0 ms;

\- the longest SMTC duration among all above active serving cells in SCG
when one SCell is released.

Where X1 and Y1 are specified in Table 8.2.1.2.3-2.

Table 8.2.1.2.3-1: Interruption length X1 and Y1 at E-UTRA SCell
addition/Release

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.16875in" height="0.16875in"}   NR Slot length   Interruption length X1 (slots)   Interruption length Y1 (slots)            
  ------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- -------------------------------- -------------------------------- -------- -------
                                                                (ms)             Sync                             Async                            Sync     Async
  0                                                             1                1                                2                                1        2
  1                                                             0.5              2                                3                                2        3
  2                                                             0.25             5                                4                                5        
  3                                                             0.125            9                                N/A                              \- N/A   

Table 8.2.1.2.3-2: Interruption length X1 and Y1 at SCell
addition/Release

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.16875in" height="0.16875in"}   NR Slot length (ms) of victim cell   Interruption length X1 (slots)                   Interruption length Y1 (slots)   
  ------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---
  0                                                             1                                    1                                                1                                
  1                                                             0.5                                  2                                                2                                
  2                                                             0.25                                 Both aggressor cell and victim cell are on FR2   4                                4
                                                                                                     Either aggressor cell or victim cell is on FR1   5                                
  3                                                             0.125                                Aggressor cell is on FR2                         8                                8
                                                                                                     Aggressor cell is on FR1                         9                                

##### 8.2.1.2.4 Interruptions at SCell activation/deactivation

The requirements in this clause shall apply for the UE configured with
PSCell and one SCell.

When one E-UTRA SCell in MCG is activated from deactivated or dormant
state, or deactivated from activated or dormant state:

\- the UE is allowed an interruption on any active serving cell in SCG:

\- of up to X2 slot, if the active serving cell is not in the same band
as the E-UTRA SCell being activated or deactivated, or

\- of up to X2 slot, if the active serving cell is in the band
overlapping or partially overlapping with the E-UTRA SCell being
activated or deactivated and UE indicates it is capable of
*interBandMRDC-WithOverlapDL-Bands-r16* on this band pair, or

\- of up to max{Y2 slot + T~SMTC\_duration~, 5ms}, if the active serving
cells are in the same band or in the band overlapping or partially
overlapping with the E-UTRA SCell being activated or deactivated, and UE
does not indicate it is capable of
*interBandMRDC-WithOverlapDL-Bands-r16* on this band pair, provided the
cell specific reference signals from the active serving cells and the
E-UTRA SCell being activated or deactivated are available in the same
slot, where T~SMTC\_duration~ is the longest SMTC duration among all
above active serving cells in SCG.

Where X2 and Y2 are specified in Table 8.2.1.2.4-1.

When one SCell in SCG is activated or deactivated:

\- an interruption on any active serving cell in SCG:

\- of up to X2 slot, if the active serving cell and the SCell being
activated or deactivated are in a FR1 band pair or in a FR1+FR2 band
pair.

\- of up to X2 slot, if the active serving cells and the SCell being
activated or deactivated are in a FR2 band pair and UE is capable of
independent beam management on this FR2 band pair.

or

\- of up to Y2 slot + T~SMTC\_duration~ if the active serving cells are
in the same band as the SCell being activated or deactivated, provided
the cell specific reference signals from the active serving cells and
the SCell being activated or deactivated are available in the same slot,
where, T~SMTC\_duration~ is

\- the longest SMTC duration among all above active serving cells in SCG
and the SCell being activated when one SCell is activated. If SSB
configuration (*absoluteFrequencySSB*) but no SMTC configuration is
provided for the SCell being activated, the SSB transmission periodicity
is assumed to be 5ms and T~SMTC\ duration~ for the SCell being activated
is x ms, where x = the number of consecutive subframes containing all
SSBs in one SSB burst transmitted by the SCell being activated. If no
SSB configuration (*absoluteFrequencySSB*) nor SMTC configuration is
provided for the SCell being activated, T~SMTC\ duration~ for the SCell
being activated is 0ms;

\- the longest SMTC duration among all above active serving cells in SCG
when one SCell is deactivated.

Where X2 and Y2 are specified in Table 8.2.1.2.4-2.

Table 8.2.1.2.4-1: Interruption length X2 and Y2 at E-UTRA SCell
activation/deactivation

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.16875in" height="0.16875in"}   NR Slot length   nterruption length X2 (slots)   Interruption length Y2 (slots)          
  ------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ------------------------------- -------------------------------- ------ -------
                                                                (ms)             Sync                            Async                            Sync   Async
  0                                                             1                1                               2                                1      2
  1                                                             0.5              1                               2                                1      2
  2                                                             0.25             3                               2                                3      
  3                                                             0.125            5                               N/A                              N/A    

Table 8.2.1.2.4-2: Interruption length X2 and Y2 at SCell
activation/deactivation

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.16875in" height="0.16875in"}   NR Slot length (ms) of victim cell   Interruption length X2 (slots)                   Interruption length Y2 (slots)   
  ------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---
  0                                                             1                                    1                                                1                                
  1                                                             0.5                                  1                                                1                                
  2                                                             0.25                                 Both aggressor cell and victim cell are on FR2   2                                2
                                                                                                     Either aggressor cell or victim cell is on FR1   3                                
  3                                                             0.125                                Aggressor cell is on FR2                         4                                4
                                                                                                     Aggressor cell is on FR1                         5                                

##### 8.2.1.2.5 Interruptions during measurements on SCC

##### 8.2.1.2.5.1 Interruptions during measurements on deactivated NR SCC {#interruptions-during-measurements-on-deactivated-nr-scc .H6}

Interruption on PSCell and other activated NR SCell(s) during
measurement on the deactivated NR SCC shall meet requirements in clause
8.2.2.2.3, where the term PCell in clause 8.2.2.2.3 shall be deemed to
be replaced with PSCell.

##### 8.2.1.2.5.2 Interruptions during measurements on deactivated E-UTRAN SCC {#interruptions-during-measurements-on-deactivated-e-utran-scc .H6}

When one E-UTRA SCell in MCG is deactivated, the UE is allowed due to
measurements on the E-UTRA SCC with the deactivated E-UTRA SCell:

\- an interruption on PSCell or any activated SCell with up to 0.5%
probability of missed ACK/NACK when any of the configured
*measCycleSCell* \[15\] for the deactivated E-UTRA SCells is 640 ms or
longer.

\- an interruption on PSCell or any activated SCell with up to 0.5%
probability of missed ACK/NACK regardless of the configured
*measCycleSCell* \[15\] for the deactivated E-UTRA SCells if indicated
by the network using IE *allowInterruptions* \[15\].

Each interruption shall not exceed

\- X3 slot, if the PSCell or activated SCell is not in the same band as
the E-UTRA deactivated SCC being measured, or

\- X3 slot, if the PSCell or activated SCell is in the band overlapping
or partially overlapping with the E-UTRA deactivated SCC being measured,
and UE indicates it is capable of
*interBandMRDC-WithOverlapDL-Bands-r16* on this band pair, or

\- Y3 slot + SMTC duration, if the PSCell or activated SCell is in the
same band or in the band overlapping or partially overlapping with the
E-UTRA deactivated SCC being measured, and UE does not indicate it is
capable of *interBandMRDC-WithOverlapDL-Bands-r16* on this band pair,
provided the cell specific reference signals from the PSCell or
activated SCell and the E-UTRA deactivated SCC being measured are
available in the same slot.

Table 8.2.1.2.5.2-1: Interruption length X3 and Y3 at measurements on
deactivated E-UTRA SCC

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.16875in" height="0.16875in"}   NR Slot length   Interruption length X3 (slots)   Interruption length Y3 (slots)          
  ------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- -------------------------------- -------------------------------- ------ -------
                                                                (ms)             Sync                             Async                            Sync   Async
  0                                                             1                1                                2                                1      2
  1                                                             0.5              1                                2                                1      2
  2                                                             0.25             3                                2                                3      
  3                                                             0.125            5                                N/A                              N/A    

##### 8.2.1.2.5.3 Interruptions during CQI measurements on dormant E-UTRAN SCell {#interruptions-during-cqi-measurements-on-dormant-e-utran-scell .H6}

When one E-UTRA SCell in MCG is dormant, the UE is allowed due to CQI
measurements on the dormant E-UTRA SCell:

\- an interruption on PSCell or any activated SCell with up to 0.5%
probability of missed ACK/NACK.

Each interruption shall not exceed

\- X3 slot, if the PSCell or activated SCell is not in the same band as
the E-UTRA dormant SCell being measured, or

\- X3 slot, if the PSCell or activated SCell is in the band overlapping
or partially overlapping with the E-UTRA dormant SCC being measured, and
UE indicates it is capable of *interBandMRDC-WithOverlapDL-Bands-r16* on
this band pair, or

\- Y3 slot + SMTC duration, if the PSCell or activated SCell is in the
same band or in the band overlapping or partially overlapping with the
E-UTRA dormant SCell being measured, and UE does not report
*interBandMRDC-WithOverlapDL-Bands-r16* on this band pair, provided the
cell specific reference signals from the PSCell or activated SCell and
the E-UTRA dormant SCell being measured are available in the same slot.

Where X3 and Y3 are defined in Table 8.2.1.2.5.2-1.

##### 8.2.1.2.5.4 Interruptions during RRM measurements on dormant E-UTRAN SCC {#interruptions-during-rrm-measurements-on-dormant-e-utran-scc .H6}

When one E-UTRA SCell in MCG is dormant, the UE is allowed due to RRM
measurements on the E-UTRA SCC with the dormant E-UTRA SCell:

\- an interruption on PSCell or any activated SCell with up to 0.5%
probability of missed ACK/NACK.

Each interruption shall not exceed

\- X3 slot, if the PSCell or activated SCell is not in the same band as
the E-UTRA dormant SCC being measured, or

\- X3 slot, if the PSCell or activated SCell is in the band overlapping
or partially overlapping with the E-UTRA dormant SCC being measured and
UE reports *interBandMRDC-WithOverlapDL-Bands-r16* on this band pair, or

\- Y3 slot + SMTC duration, if the PSCell or activated SCell is in the
same band or in the band overlapping or partially overlapping with the
E-UTRA dormant SCC being measured, and UE does not report
*interBandMRDC-WithOverlapDL-Bands-r16* on this band pair, provided the
cell specific reference signals from the PSCell or activated SCell and
the E-UTRA dormant SCC being measured are available in the same slot.

Where X3 and Y3 are defined in Table 8.2.1.2.5.2-1.

##### 8.2.1.2.6 Interruptions at UL carrier RRC reconfiguration

The requirements in this clause shall apply when a supplementary UL
carrier or an UL carrier is configured or de-configured in NR
non-standalone operation as defined in TS 38.331 \[2\].

When an UL carrier or supplementary UL carrier is configured or
de-configured, an interruption of up to X4 slot, is allowed during the
RRC reconfiguration procedure \[2\] on E-UTRA PCell, all activated
E-UTRA SCells, PSCell and all activated SCells within the same FR as the
reconfigured uplink carrier. The interruption is for both uplink and
downlink of E-UTRA PCell, all activated E-UTRA SCells, PSCell and all
activated SCells within the same FR as the configured or de-configured
UL.

Table 8.2.1.2.6-1: Interruption length X4 at UL carrier RRC
reconfiguration

+----------------------+-------------+----------------------+-------+
| ![](media/image6.wm  | NR Slot     | Interruption length  |       |
| f){width="0.16875in" |             | X4 (slots)           |       |
| height="0.16875in"}  | length (ms) |                      |       |
+======================+=============+======================+=======+
|                      |             | Sync                 | Async |
+----------------------+-------------+----------------------+-------+
| 0                    | 1           | 1                    | 2     |
+----------------------+-------------+----------------------+-------+
| 1                    | 0.5         | 2                    | 3     |
+----------------------+-------------+----------------------+-------+
| 2                    | 0.25        | 5                    |       |
+----------------------+-------------+----------------------+-------+
| 3                    | 0.125       | 9                    |       |
+----------------------+-------------+----------------------+-------+

##### 8.2.1.2.7 Interruptions due to Active BWP switching Requirement

The requirements for DCI-based BWP switch, timer-based BWP switch or UL
BWP switch triggered by consistent uplink CCA failures in this clause
apply to the case that the BWP switch is performed on a single CC or
multiple CCs.

When either of the DCI-based, timer-based or RRC-based downlink BWP
switch and/or uplink BWP switch occur on multiple CCs simultaneously or
over partially overlapping period, the interruption requirements
described in this clause apply for each BWP switch.

When UE receives a DCI indicating UE to switch its active BWP involving
changes in any of the parameters listed in Table 8.2.1.2.7-2, the UE is
allowed to cause interruption of up to X slot to other active serving
cells if the UE is not capable of per-FR gap, or if the BWP switching
involves SCS changing. When the BWP switch imposes changes in any of the
parameters listed in Table 8.2.1.2.7-2 and the UE is capable of per-FR
gap, the UE is allowed to cause interruption of up to X slot to other
active serving cells in the same frequency range wherein the UE is
performing BWP switching. X is defined in Table 8.2.1.2.7-1. The
starting time of interruption is only allowed within the BWP switching
delay T~BWPswitchDelay~ as defined in clause 8.6.2 when BWP switch
occurs on a single CC. The starting time of interruption caused by each
BWP switch is only allowed within the BWP switch delay
T~MultipleBWPswitchDelay~ +Y as defined in clause 8.6.2A.1 when BWP
switch occurs on multiple CCs. Interruptions are not allowed during BWP
switch involving any other parameter change.

When a BWP timer *bwp-InactivityTimer* defined in TS 38.331 \[2\]
expires, UE is allowed to cause interruption of up to X slot to other
active serving cells due to switching its active BWP involving changes
in any of the parameters listed in Table 8.2.1.2.7-2 if the UE is not
capable of per-FR gap, or if the BWP switching involves SCS changing.
When the BWP switch imposes changes in any of the parameters listed in
Table 8.2.1.2.7-2 and the UE is capable of per-FR gap, the UE is allowed
to cause interruption of up to X slot to other active serving cells in
the same frequency range wherein the UE is performing BWP switching. X
is defined in Table 8.2.1.2.7-1. The starting time of interruption is
only allowed within the BWP switching delay T~BWPswitchDelay~ as defined
in clause 8.6.2 when BWP switch occurs on a single CC. The starting time
of interruption caused by each BWP switch is only allowed within the BWP
switch delay T~MultipleBWPswitchDelay~ as defined in clause 8.6.2B.1
when BWP switch occurs on multiple CCs simultaneously or
**T**~MultipleBWPswitchDelayTotal~ as defined in clause 8.6.2B.2 when
BWP switch occurs on multiple CCs over partially overlapping time
period. Interruptions are not allowed during BWP switch involving any
other parameter change.

When UE receives an RRC reconfiguration that only requests UE to switch
its active BWP on one single CC, the UE is allowed to cause interruption
of up to X slot to other active serving cells due to switching its
active BWP involving changes in any of the parameters listed in Table
8.2.1.2.7-2 if the UE is not capable of per-FR gap, or if the BWP
switching involves SCS changing. When the BWP switch imposes changes in
any of the parameters listed in Table 8.2.1.2.7-2 and the UE is capable
of per-FR gap, the UE is allowed to cause interruption of up to X slot
to other active serving cells in the same frequency range wherein the UE
is performing BWP switching. X is defined in Table 8.2.1.2.7-1. The
interruption is only allowed within the delay T~RRCprocessingDelay~ +
T~BWPswitchDelayRRC~ defined in clause 8.6.3 when BWP switch occurs on a
single CC. The interruption is only allowed within the delay
T~RRCprocessingDelay~ + T~BWPswitchDelayRRC~ + D~RRC~\*(N-1) as defined
in clause 8.6.3A when BWP switch occurs on multiple CCs.

When UL BWP switch is triggered by consistent uplink CCA failures \[7\],
the UE is allowed to cause interruption of up to X slot to other active
serving cells due to switching its active UL BWP involving changes in
any of the parameters listed in Table 8.2.1.2.7-2 if the UE is not
capable of per-FR gap, or if the UL BWP switching involves SCS changing.
When the UL BWP switch imposes changes in any of the parameters listed
in Table 8.2.1.2.7-2 and the UE is capable of per-FR gap, the UE is
allowed to cause interruption of up to X slot to other active serving
cells in the same frequency range wherein the UE is performing UL BWP
switching. X is defined in Table 8.2.1.2.7-1. The starting time of
interruption is only allowed within the UL BWP switching delay
T~BWPswitchDelay~ as defined in clause 8.6.2. Interruptions are not
allowed during UL BWP switch involving other parameter change.

Table 8.2.1.2.7-1: interruption length X

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.16875in" height="0.16875in"}   NR Slot length (ms)   Interruption length X (slots)
  ------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- -------------------------------
  0                                                             1                     1
  1                                                             0.5                   1
  2                                                             0.25                  3
  3                                                             0.125                 5
  Note1: void                                                                         

Table 8.2.1.2.7-2: Parameters which cause interruption other than SCS

  Parameters               Comment
  ------------------------ ----------------------
  *locationAndBandwidth*   From TS 38.331 \[2\]
  *nrofSRS-Ports*          
  *maxMIMO-Layers-r16*     

##### 8.2.1.2.8 Interruptions at direct SCell activation and hibernation

##### 8.2.1.2.8.1 Interruptions during direct SCell activation and hibernation of E-UTRA SCell {#interruptions-during-direct-scell-activation-and-hibernation-of-e-utra-scell .H6}

When one E-UTRA SCell in MCG is directly activated and hibernated:

\- the UE is allowed an interruption on any active serving cell in SCG:

\- of up to X1 slots, if the active serving cell is not in the same band
as any of the E-UTRA SCells being directly activated or hibernated, or

\- of up to X1 slots, if the active serving cell is in the band
overlapping or partially overlapping with any of the E-UTRA SCells being
directly activated or hibernated and UE reports
*interBandMRDC-WithOverlapDL-Bands-r16* on this band pair, or

\- of up to max{Y1 slots + T~SMTC\_duration~, 5ms}, if the active
serving cells are in the same band or in the band overlapping or
partially overlapping with any of the E-UTRA SCells being directly
activated or hibernated, and UE does not report
*interBandMRDC-WithOverlapDL-Bands-r16* on this band pair, provided the
cell specific reference signals from the active serving cells and the
E-UTRA SCells being directly activated or hibernated are available in
the same slot, where T~SMTC\_duration~ is the longest SMTC duration
among all above active serving cells in MCG Where X1 and Y1 are
specified in Table 8.2.1.2.3-1.

##### 8.2.1.2.8.2 Interruptions during direct SCell activation {#interruptions-during-direct-scell-activation .H6}

When one or multiple SCell(s) in SCG are directly activated at SCell
addition:

\- the UE is allowed an interruption on any active serving cell in SCG:

\- of up to X1 slot, if the active serving cell is not in the same band
as the SCell being directly activated, or

\- of up to max{Y1 slot + T~SMTC\_duration~, 5ms} if the active serving
cells are in the same band as the SCell being directly activated,
provided the cell specific reference signals from the active serving
cells and the SCell being directly activated are available in the same
slot, where T~SMTC\_duration~ is the longest SMTC duration among all
above active serving cells in SCG.

Where X1 and Y1 are specified in Table 8.2.1.2.3-2.

##### 8.2.1.2.9 Interruptions at SCell hibernation

When one E-UTRA SCell in MCG is hibernated:

\- the UE is allowed an interruption on any active serving cell in SCG:

\- of up to X2 slots, if the active serving cell is not in the same band
as any of the E-UTRA SCells being hibernated, or

\- of up to X2 slots, if the active serving cell is in the band
overlapping or partially overlapping with any of the E-UTRA SCells being
hibernated and UE reports *interBandMRDC-WithOverlapDL-Bands-r16* on
this band pair, or

\- of up to max{Y2 slots + T~SMTC\_duration~, 5ms}, if the active
serving cells are in the same band or in the band overlapping or
partially overlapping with any of the E-UTRA SCells being hibernated,
and UE does not report *interBandMRDC-WithOverlapDL-Bands-r16* on this
band pair, provided the cell specific reference signals from the active
serving cells and the E-UTRA SCells being hibernated are available in
the same slot, where T~SMTC\_duration~ is the longest SMTC duration
among all above active serving cells in MCG.

> Where X2 and Y2 are specified in Table 8.2.1.2.4-1.

##### 8.2.1.2.10 Interruptions at SCell activation/deactivation with multiple downlink SCells

The requirements in this clause shall apply for the UE configured with
PSCell and up to 6 downlink SCell(s).

When multiple SCells in SCG are activated or deactivated by one single
MAC CE command:

\- an interruption on any serving cell in SCG is specified as in clause
8.2.1.2.4.

##### 8.2.1.2.11 Interruptions due to UE-specific CBW change

When UE receives an RRC reconfiguration that changes *offsetToCarrier*
or *carrierBandwidth*, the UE is allowed to cause interruption of up to
X slot to other active serving cells due to switching its CBW. X is
defined in Table 8.2.1.2.11-1. The interruption is only allowed within
the delay T~RRCprocessingDelay~ + T~CBWchangeDelayRRC~ defined in
clause 8.7.

Table 8.2.1.2.11-1: interruption length X

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.16875in" height="0.16875in"}   NR Slot       Interruption length X (slots)
  ------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- -------------------------------
                                                                length (ms)   
  0                                                             1             1
  1                                                             0.5           1
  2                                                             0.25          3
  3                                                             0.125         5

##### 8.2.1.2.12 Interruptions at NR SRS carrier based switching

SRS transmission can be configured on a carrier not configured for
PUCCH/PUSCH transmission. When a UE needs to transmit periodic,
semi-persistent or aperiodic SRS on a carrier of a serving cell not
configured for PUCCH/PUSCH transmission, the UE can perform carrier
based switching to one or more carriers not configured for PUCCH/PUSCH
transmission from a carrier with PUCCH/PUSCH transmission or from a
carrier not configured for PUCCH/PUSCH transmission prior to
transmitting SRS, provided that:

\- switching is from a configured carrier to an active UL BWP of another
activated carrier;

\- the carrier of SCells not configured for PUCCH/PUSCH transmission to
which SRS carrier based switching is performed is indicated by DCI SRS
request field for aperiodic SRS transmission, or indicated by MAC-CE for
semi-persistent SRS transmission, or configured via RRC for periodic SRS
transmission;

\- the serving cell, from which SRS carrier based switching is performed
and whose UL transmission may therefore be interrupted, is indicated by
srs-SwitchFromServCellIndex and srs-SwitchFromCarrier in TS38.331 \[2\];

\- the SRS switching is not colliding with any other transmission with
higher priority defined in TS 38.214 \[26\].

\- the SRS switching is not colliding with any SSB/CSI-RS based L3
measurements and the measurements for RLM/BFD in SCG.

\- for UE, which does not support simultaneous reception and
transmission for inter-band TDD CA specified in TS 38.331 \[2\], and is
compliant to the requirements for inter-band CA with uplink in one NR
band and without simultaneous Rx/Tx specified in TS 38.101 \[5\], the
SRS transmission are not simultaneously scheduled with DL SSB/CSI-RS for
L3 or L1 measurements transmission on other carriers.

The UE shall not perform SRS carrier based switching if the above
conditions cannot be met.

When SRS carrier based switching is performed between carriers, the UE
is allowed interruptions on any active serving cell in SCG if UE is not
capable of Per-FR gap, or on active serving cell(s) in SCG in FR1 if UE
is capable of Per-FR gap, during the switching to the carrier of a
serving cell in FR1 not configured for PUCCH/PUSCH transmission,

\- with up to X1 slot as specified in Table 8.2.1.2.12-1.

When SRS carrier based switching is performed between carriers, the UE
is allowed interruptions on any active serving cell in SCG if UE is not
capable of Per-FR gap, or on active serving cell(s) in SCG in FR2 if UE
is capable of Per-FR gap, during the switching to the carrier of a
serving cell in FR2 not configured for PUCCH/PUSCH transmission,

\- with up to X2 slot as specified in Table 8.2.1.2.12-2.

When SRS carrier based switching is performed between carriers, the UE
is allowed interruptions on any active serving cell in SCG if UE is not
capable of Per-FR gap, or on active serving cell(s) in SCG in FR1 if UE
is capable of Per-FR gap, during the switching from the carrier of a
serving cell in FR1 not configured for PUCCH/PUSCH transmission,

\- with up to X1 slot as specified in Table 8.2.1.2.12-1.

When SRS carrier based switching is performed between carriers, the UE
is allowed interruptions on any active serving cell in SCG if UE is not
capable of Per-FR gap, or on active serving cell(s) in SCG in FR2 if UE
is capable of Per-FR gap, during the switching from the carrier of a
serving cell in FR2 not configured for PUCCH/PUSCH transmission,

\- with up to X2 slot as specified in Table 8.2.1.2.12-2.

Table 8.2.1.2.12-1: Interruption length X1 (slot)

                                                                                                                     NR Slot length        SRS carrier                    Interruption length X1 (slots)                
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------- ------------------------------ --------------------------------------------- ----
  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.15555555555555556in" height="0.175in"}                                              (ms) of victim cell   switching time (us)^Note\ 1^   Sub carrier spacing for agressor cell (kHz)   
                                                                                                                                                                          15                                            30
  0                                                                                                                  1                     ≤ 200                          2                                             2
                                                                                                                                           300, 500                       2                                             2
                                                                                                                                           900                            3                                             3
  1                                                                                                                  0.5                   ≤ 200                          3                                             2
                                                                                                                                           300, 500                       3                                             3
                                                                                                                                           900                            4                                             4
  2                                                                                                                  0.25                  ≤ 200                          4                                             3
                                                                                                                                           300, 500                       5                                             4
                                                                                                                                           900                            7                                             6
  3                                                                                                                  0.125                 ≤ 200                          7                                             5
                                                                                                                                           300, 500                       9                                             7
                                                                                                                                           900                            12                                            10
  Note1: NR SRS carrier switching time is UE capability indicated by higher layer parameter *SRS-SwitchingTimeNR*.                                                                                                      

Table 8.2.1.2.12-2: Interruption length X2 (slot)

                                                                                                                     NR Slot                      SRS carrier                   Interruption length X2 (slots)                
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------- ----------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----
  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.15555555555555556in" height="0.175in"}                                              length (ms) of victim cell   switching time (us) ^Note1^   Sub carrier spacing for agressor cell (kHz)   
                                                                                                                                                                                60                                            120
  0                                                                                                                  1                            ≤ 200                         2                                             2
  1                                                                                                                  0.5                          ≤ 200                         2                                             2
  2                                                                                                                  0.25                         ≤ 200                         3                                             3
  3                                                                                                                  0.125                        ≤ 200                         4                                             4
  Note1: NR SRS carrier switching time is UE capability indicated by higher layer parameter *SRS-SwitchingTimeNR*.                                                                                                            

For intra-band SRS carrier switching in FR1 or FR2, interruptions in
Table 8.2.1.2.12-1 and in Table 8.2.1.2.12-2 based on SRS carrier
switching time ≤ 200us shall apply. For inter-band SRS carrier switching
in FR1, interruptions in Table 8.2.1.2.12-1 and in Table 8.2.1.2.12-2
shall apply.

##### 8.2.1.2.13 Interruptions at E-UTRA SRS carrier based switching

A PUSCH-less carrier of E-UTRA SCell is a TDD carrier without
PUCCH/PUSCH configured. When a UE needs to transmit periodic or
aperiodic SRS \[23\] and/or non-contention based PRACH on a PUSCH-less
carrier of E-UTRA SCell, the UE can perform carrier based switching to
one or more PUSCH-less carrier of E-UTRA SCells from a E-UTRA carrier
with PUSCH or from another PUSCH-less E-UTRA carrier of SCell prior to
transmitting SRS and/or PRACH, provided that:

\- switching is from a configured E-UTRA carrier to another activated
TDD E-UTRA carrier;

\- the PUSCH-less carrier of E-UTRA SCells to which SRS carrier based
switching is performed is indicated by DCI SRS request field for
aperiodic SRS transmission or configured via RRC \[15\] for periodic SRS
transmission;

\- the E-UTRA serving cell, from which SRS carrier based switching is
performed and whose UL transmission may therefore be interrupted, is
indicated by srs-SwitchFromServCellIndex \[15\];

\- the SRS switching is not colliding with any other transmission with
higher priority defined in TS36.213 \[26\];

\- the SRS switching is not colliding with PDCCH in subframe 0 and 5 as
specified in TS36.213 \[26\];

\- for UE, which does not support simultaneous reception and
transmission for inter-band TDD CA specified in TS 36.331 \[2\], and is
compliant to the requirements for inter-band CA with uplink in one
E-UTRA band and without simultaneous Rx/Tx specified in TS 36.101
\[25\], the SRS or RACH transmission are not simultaneously scheduled
with DL subframe \#0 or DL subframe \#5 on other E-UTRA carriers.

The UE shall not perform SRS carrier based switching if the above
conditions cannot be met.

When SRS carrier based switching is performed between E-UTRA carriers,
the UE is allowed interruptions on any active serving cell in SCG if UE
is not capable of Per-FR gap, or on active serving cell(s) in SCG in FR1
if UE is capable of Per-FR gap, during the switching to the PUSCH-less
carrier of a serving cell,

\- with up to X3 slot as specified in Table 8.2.1.2.13-1.

When SRS carrier based switching is performed between E-UTRA carriers,
the UE is allowed interruptions on any active serving cell in SCG if UE
is not capable of Per-FR gap, or on active serving cell(s) in SCG in FR1
if UE is capable of Per-FR gap, during the switching from the PUSCH-less
carrier of a serving cell,

\- with up to X3 slot as specified in Table 8.2.1.2.13-1

Table 8.2.1.2.13-1: Interruption length X3 (slot)

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.16875in" height="0.16875in"}   NR Slot       Interruption length X3
  ------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ------------------------
                                                                length (ms)   (slots)
  0                                                             1             2
  1                                                             0.5           3
  2                                                             0.25          5
  3                                                             0.125         9

##### 8.2.1.2.14 DL Interruptions at switching between two uplink carriers

The DL interruption requirements at dynamic switching between two uplink
carriers specified in this clause are applicable for an uplink band pair
of an inter-band EN-DC configuration when the capability
*uplinkTxSwitchingPeriod* is present, and is only applicable for uplink
switching mechanism specified in clause 6.1.6 of TS 38.214 \[26\], where
E-UTRA UL carrier is capable of one transmit antenna connector and NR UL
carrier is capable of two transmit antenna connectors, and the two
uplink carriers are in different bands with different carrier
frequencies.

When dynamic switching between two uplink carriers is conducted, UE is
allowed to cause DL interruption of X OFDM symbols in NR downlink
carrier(s) as indicated by *uplinkTxSwitching-DL-Interruption* \[2\].
The DL interruption starts from the first OFDM symbol which fully or
partially overlaps with the UL switching period located in NR carrier.
The DL interruption lengths of X for NR carrier(s) are defined in Table
8.2.1.2.14-1.

No DL interruption is allowed in the NR downlink carrier(s) which is not
indicated by *uplinkTxSwitching-DL-Interruption*. No DL interruption is
allowed for some inter-band EN-DC configurations as specified in clause
5.5B.4 of TS 38.101-3 \[20\].

Table 8.2.1.2.14-1: DL interruption length on NR carrier(s) in the unit
of OFDM symbols (X) for switching between two uplink carriers

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.16875in" height="0.16875in"}                              NR Slot length (ms)   Uplink Tx switching period ^Note1^   
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- ------------------------------------ -------
                                                                                                                 35us                                 140us
  0                                                                                        1                     2                                    3
  1                                                                                        0.5                   3                                    6
  2                                                                                        0.25                  4                                    10
  Note 1: Uplink Tx switching period depends on UE capability *uplinkTxSwitchingPeriod.*                                                              

##### 8.2.1.2.15 Interruptions due to SCell dormancy

##### 8.2.1.2.15.1 Interruptions due to SCell dormancy switch {#interruptions-due-to-scell-dormancy-switch .H6}

When one SCell in SCG is switched from dormancy to non-dormancy or from
non-dormancy to dormancy \[7\] when UE is in DRX active time,

\- the UE is allowed an interruption on active serving cell in SCG as
defined in clause 8.2.1.2.7, except that the interruption is allowed
regardless of which parameters change between the dormant BWP and the
non-dormant BWP

\- The starting time of interruption shall be within the dormancy
switching delay as defined in clause 8.6.2.

When multiple SCells in SCG are switched from dormancy to non-dormancy
or vice versa when the UE is in DRX active time, the interruption
requirement described above applies for each BWP switch.

##### 8.2.1.2.15.2 Interruptions due to CQI measurements during SCell dormancy  {#interruptions-due-to-cqi-measurements-during-scell-dormancy .H6}

When one or more SCells are in dormancy, the UE is for the purpose of
CQI measurements on the dormant SCell(s) allowed to cause interruptions
to non-dormant serving cell(s).

The rate of ACK/NACK feedback loss on any non-dormant serving cell
resulting from CQI measurements on dormant SCells shall not exceed 0.5%.

##### 8.2.1.2.15.3 Interruptions due to RRM measurements during SCell dormancy  {#interruptions-due-to-rrm-measurements-during-scell-dormancy .H6}

When one or more SCells are in dormancy, the UE is for the purpose of
RRM measurements on the dormant SCell(s) allowed to cause interruptions
to non-dormant serving cell(s).

The rate of ACK/NACK feedback loss on any non-dormant serving cell
resulting from RRM measurements on dormant SCells shall not exceed 1.0%.

##### 8.2.1.2.16 Interruptions when identifying CGI of an NR cell with autonomous gaps

When a UE is identifying CGI of an NR cell with autonomous gaps, the UE
is allowed interruptions on PSCell or any activated SCell:

\- with up to K1 interruptions with interrupted slots up to interruption
length X1 specified in Table 8.2.1.2.16-1 for each interruption during
MIB decoding time period T~MIB~ (ms) specified in clause 9.11.

\- with up to L1 interruptions with interrupted slots up to interruption
length Y1 specified in Table 8.2.1.2.16-1 for each interruption during
SIB1 decoding time period T~SIB1~ (ms) specified in clause 9.11 for SSB
and CORESET for RMSI scheduling multiplexing patterns 1.

\- with up to L2 interruptions with interrupted slots up to interruption
length Y2 specified in Table 8.2.1.2.16-1 for each interruption during
SIB1 decoding time period T~SIB1~ (ms) specified in clause 9.11 for SSB
and CORESET for RMSI scheduling multiplexing patterns 2 and 3.

Where:

\- K1 = 6 for the target cell carrier frequency on FR1 and K1 = 25 for
the target cell carrier frequency on FR2, and

\- L1 = T~SIB1~/20, and

\- L2 = T~SIB1~/T~SMTC~, where T~SMTC~ is the periodicity of the SMTC
occasion configured for the target cell carrier.

Table 8.2.1.2.16-1: Interruption length X1, Y1 and Y2 during
measurements with autonomous gaps

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.16111111111111112in" height="0.17777777777777778in"}   NR Slot length (ms) of victim cell   Interruption length X1 (slots)   Interruption length Y1 (slots)   Interruption length Y2 (slots)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ -------------------------------- -------------------------------- --------------------------------
  0                                                                                     1                                    6                                7                                6
  1                                                                                     0.5                                  12                               13                               10
  2                                                                                     0.25                                 24                               25                               19
  3                                                                                     0.125                                48                               49                               37

##### 8.2.1.2.17 Interruptions when identifying CGI of an E-UTRA cell with autonomous gaps

When a UE is identifying CGI of an E-UTRA FDD cell or E-UTRA TDD cell
with autonomous gaps, within time period

\- T~identify\_CGI,\ intra~ specified in clause 8.1.2.2.3, or clause
8.1.2.2.4 in TS 36.133 \[15\], or

\- T~identify\_CGI,\ inter~ specified in clause 8.1.2.3.5, or clause
8.1.2.3.6, or clause 8.1.2.3.7, or clause 8.1.2.3.6 in TS 36.133 \[15\],
or

\- T~identify\_CGI,\ E-UTRA~ specified in clause 9.4.7.1

the UE shall be able to transmit at least the number of ACK/NACKs
specified in Table 8.2.1.2.17-1 on PSCell or any activated SCell in the
frequency range where autonomous gaps are used, provided that:

\- there is continuous DL data allocation,

\- no DRX cycle is used,

\- no measurement gaps are configured,

\- only one code word is transmitted in each slot,

\- 2 slot ACK/NACK feedback is configured,

\- 20 ms SMTC period is configured.

Table 8.2.1.2.17-1: Minimum number of ACK/NACKs transmitted by the UE

+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| Minimum number of          | Configuration of the       |         |
| transmitted ACK/NACKs      | serving cell in which the  |         |
|                            | transmitted ACK/NACKs are  |         |
|                            | counted                    |         |
+============================+============================+=========+
|                            | Duplex mode configuration  | SCS     |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 84                         | FDD                        | 15 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 193                        | FDD                        | 30 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 402                        | FDD                        | 60 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 28                         | TDD ^Note\ 1^              | 15 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 81                         | TDD ^Note\ 1^              | 30 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 159                        | TDD ^Note\ 1^              | 60 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 233                        | TDD ^Note\ 2^              | 60 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 491                        | TDD ^Note\ 2^              | 120 kHz |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| NOTE 1: TDD UL-DL          |                            |         |
| configuration is as        |                            |         |
| specified in Table         |                            |         |
| A.3.3.1-1 of TS 38.101-1   |                            |         |
| \[18\].                    |                            |         |
|                            |                            |         |
| NOTE 2: TDD UL-DL          |                            |         |
| configuration is as        |                            |         |
| specified in Table         |                            |         |
| A.3.3.1-1 of TS 38.101-2   |                            |         |
| \[19\].                    |                            |         |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+

### 8.2.2 SA: Interruptions with Standalone NR Carrier Aggregation

#### 8.2.2.1 Introduction

This clause contains the requirements related to the interruptions on
PCell and activated SCell if configured, when

up to 7 SCells are configured, de-configured, activated or deactivated,
or

a supplementary UL carrier or an UL carrier is configured or
de-configured, or

measurements on SCC with deactivated SCell in NR SCG, or

UL/DL BWP is switched on PCell or SCell, or

CGI reading of an NR neighbour cell with autonomous gaps, or

CGI reading of an E-UTRA neighbour cell with autonomous gaps.

UE-specific CBW is changed on PCell or SCell, or

NR SRS carrier based switching, or

UE dynamic Tx switches between two uplink carriers.

Note: interruptions at SCell addition/release, activation/deactivation
and during measurements on SCC may not be required by all UEs.

The interruptions shall not interrupt RRC signalling or ACK/NACKs
related to RRC reconfiguration procedure according to TS38.331 \[2\] for
SCell addition/release or MAC control signalling according to TS37.340
\[17\] for SCell activation/deactivation command.

This clause additionally contains requirements related to interruptions
at inter-frequency SFTD between PCell in FR1 and neighbour cell in FR2.

For a UE which does not support per-FR measurement gap, interruptions to
the PCell and activated SCell may be caused by SCells on any frequency
range. For a UE which supports per-FR gaps, interruptions to PCell and
activated SCell may be caused by SCells on the same frequency range as
the victim cell.

In addition to standalone NR carrier aggregation when no CCA is
configured, the requirements in clause 8.2.2. and all subclauses of
8.2.2 apply when the UE is configured with

-A PCell not using CCA in downlink and one or more SCells using CCA in
downlink or

-A PCell and one or more SCells using CCA in downlink

#### 8.2.2.2 Requirements

##### 8.2.2.2.1 Interruptions at SCell addition/release

When any number of SCells between one and 7 is added or released using
the same *RRCConnectionReconfiguration* message as defined in
TS 38.331 \[2\], the UE is allowed an interruption on any active serving
cell during the RRC reconfiguration procedure as follows:

\- an interruption on any active serving cell:

\- of up to X1 slot, if the active serving cell and the SCell being
added or released are in a FR1 band pair or in a FR1+FR2 band pair.

\- of up to X1 slot, if the active serving cell and the SCell being
added or released are in a FR2 band pair and UE is capable of
independent beam management on this FR2 band pair.

Where X1 is specified in Table 8.2.2.2.1-1.

or

\- of up to the duration shown in table 8.2.2.2.1-2, if the active
serving cells are in the same band as the SCell being added or released,
provided the cell specific reference signals from the active serving
cells and the SCell being added or released are available in the same
slot.

Table 8.2.2.2.1-1: Interruption length X1 for SCell addition/release for
inter-band CA

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.15555555555555556in" height="0.175in"}   NR Slot length (ms) of victim cell   Interruption length X1 (slots)                   
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------ ---
  0                                                                       1                                    1                                                
  1                                                                       0.5                                  2                                                
  2                                                                       0.25                                 Both aggressor cell and victim cell are on FR2   4
                                                                                                               Either aggressor cell or victim cell is on FR1   5
  3                                                                       0.125                                Aggressor cell is on FR2                         8
                                                                                                               Aggressor cell is on FR1                         9

**Table 8.2.2.2.1-2: Interruption duration for SCell addition/release
for intra-band CA**

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| ![](media/           | **NR Slot length     | **Interruption       |
| image6.wmf){width="0 | (ms)**               | length (slot)**      |
| .1597222222222222in" |                      |                      |
| height="0.1          |                      |                      |
| 7569444444444443in"} |                      |                      |
+======================+======================+======================+
| 0                    | 1                    | 1 +                  |
|                      |                      | T~SMTC\_duration~ \* |
|                      |                      | $N_{\text{slot}}^{\  |
|                      |                      | text{subframe},\mu}$ |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 1                    | 0.5                  | 2 +                  |
|                      |                      | T~SMTC\_duration~ \* |
|                      |                      | $N_{\text{slot}}^{\  |
|                      |                      | text{subframe},\mu}$ |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 2                    | 0.25                 | 4 +                  |
|                      |                      | T~SMTC\_duration~ \* |
|                      |                      | $N_{\text{slot}}^{\  |
|                      |                      | text{subframe},\mu}$ |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 3                    | 0.125                | 8 +                  |
|                      |                      | T~SMTC\_duration~ \* |
|                      |                      | $N_{\text{slot}}^{\  |
|                      |                      | text{subframe},\mu}$ |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| NOTE 1:              |                      |                      |
| T~SMTC\_duration~    |                      |                      |
| measured in          |                      |                      |
| subframes is         |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| \- the longest SMTC  |                      |                      |
| duration among all   |                      |                      |
| above active serving |                      |                      |
| cells and the SCell  |                      |                      |
| being added when one |                      |                      |
| SCell is added. If   |                      |                      |
| SSB configuration    |                      |                      |
| (*ab                 |                      |                      |
| soluteFrequencySSB*) |                      |                      |
| but no SMTC          |                      |                      |
| configuration is     |                      |                      |
| provided for the     |                      |                      |
| SCell being added,   |                      |                      |
| the SSB transmission |                      |                      |
| periodicity is       |                      |                      |
| assumed to be 5ms    |                      |                      |
| and                  |                      |                      |
| T~SMTC\ duration~    |                      |                      |
| for the SCell being  |                      |                      |
| added is x ms, where |                      |                      |
| x = the number of    |                      |                      |
| consecutive          |                      |                      |
| subframes containing |                      |                      |
| all SSBs in one SSB  |                      |                      |
| burst transmitted by |                      |                      |
| the SCell being      |                      |                      |
| added. If no SSB     |                      |                      |
| configuration        |                      |                      |
| (*ab                 |                      |                      |
| soluteFrequencySSB*) |                      |                      |
| nor SMTC             |                      |                      |
| configuration is     |                      |                      |
| provided for the     |                      |                      |
| SCell being added,   |                      |                      |
| T~SMTC\ duration~    |                      |                      |
| for the SCell being  |                      |                      |
| added is 0ms;        |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| \- the longest SMTC  |                      |                      |
| duration among all   |                      |                      |
| active serving cells |                      |                      |
| in the same band     |                      |                      |
| when one SCell is    |                      |                      |
| released.            |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| NOTE 2:              |                      |                      |
| $N_{\text{slot}}^{\  |                      |                      |
| text{subframe},\mu}$ |                      |                      |
| is as defined in TS  |                      |                      |
| 38.211 \[6\].        |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

##### 8.2.2.2.2 Interruptions at SCell activation/deactivation

When an SCell is activated or deactivated as defined in
TS 37.340 \[17\], the UE is allowed

\- an interruption on any active serving cell:

\- of up to X2 slot, if the active serving cell and the SCell being
activated or deactivated are in a FR1 band pair or in a FR1+FR2 band
pair.

\- of up to X2 slot, if the active serving cell and the SCell being
activated or deactivated are in a FR2 band pair and UE is capable of
independent beam management on this FR2 band pair.

Where X2 is specified in Table 8.2.2.2.2-1.

or

\- of up to the duration shown in table 8.2.2.2.2-2, if the active
serving cells are in the same band as the SCell being activated or
deactivated provided the cell specific reference signals from the active
serving cells and the SCell being activated or deactivated are available
in the same slot.

Table 8.2.2.2.2-1: Interruption length X2 for SCell
activation/deactivation for inter-band CA

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.15555555555555556in" height="0.175in"}   NR Slot length (ms) of victim cell   Interruption length X2 (slots)                   
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------ ---
  0                                                                       1                                                                                     1
  1                                                                       0.5                                                                                   1
  2                                                                       0.25                                 Both aggressor cell and victim cell are on FR2   2
                                                                                                               Either aggressor cell or victim cell is on FR1   3
  3                                                                       0.125                                Aggressor cell is on FR2                         4
                                                                                                               Aggressor cell is on FR1                         5

**Table 8.2.2.2.2-2: Interruption duration for SCell
activation/deactivation for intra-band CA**

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| ![](media/           | **NR Slot length     | **Interruption       |
| image6.wmf){width="0 | (ms)**               | length (slots)**     |
| .1597222222222222in" |                      |                      |
| height="0.1          |                      |                      |
| 7569444444444443in"} |                      |                      |
+======================+======================+======================+
| 0                    | 1                    | 1 +                  |
|                      |                      | T~SMTC\_duration~ \* |
|                      |                      | $N_{\text{slot}}^{\  |
|                      |                      | text{subframe},\mu}$ |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 1                    | 0.5                  | 1 +                  |
|                      |                      | T~SMTC\_duration~ \* |
|                      |                      | $N_{\text{slot}}^{\  |
|                      |                      | text{subframe},\mu}$ |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 2                    | 0.25                 | 2 +                  |
|                      |                      | T~SMTC\_duration~ \* |
|                      |                      | $N_{\text{slot}}^{\  |
|                      |                      | text{subframe},\mu}$ |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 3                    | 0.125                | 4 +                  |
|                      |                      | T~SMTC\_duration~ \* |
|                      |                      | $N_{\text{slot}}^{\  |
|                      |                      | text{subframe},\mu}$ |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| NOTE 1:              |                      |                      |
| T~SMTC\_duration~    |                      |                      |
| measured in          |                      |                      |
| subframes is         |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| \- the longest SMTC  |                      |                      |
| duration among all   |                      |                      |
| above active serving |                      |                      |
| cells and the SCell  |                      |                      |
| being activated when |                      |                      |
| one SCell is         |                      |                      |
| activated. If SSB    |                      |                      |
| configuration        |                      |                      |
| (*ab                 |                      |                      |
| soluteFrequencySSB*) |                      |                      |
| but no SMTC          |                      |                      |
| configuration is     |                      |                      |
| provided for the     |                      |                      |
| SCell being          |                      |                      |
| activated, the SSB   |                      |                      |
| transmission         |                      |                      |
| periodicity is       |                      |                      |
| assumed to be 5ms    |                      |                      |
| and                  |                      |                      |
| T~SMTC\ duration~    |                      |                      |
| for the SCell being  |                      |                      |
| activated is x ms,   |                      |                      |
| where x = the number |                      |                      |
| of consecutive       |                      |                      |
| subframes containing |                      |                      |
| all SSBs in one SSB  |                      |                      |
| burst transmitted by |                      |                      |
| the SCell being      |                      |                      |
| activated. If no SSB |                      |                      |
| configuration        |                      |                      |
| (*ab                 |                      |                      |
| soluteFrequencySSB*) |                      |                      |
| nor SMTC             |                      |                      |
| configuration is     |                      |                      |
| provided for the     |                      |                      |
| SCell being          |                      |                      |
| activated,           |                      |                      |
| T~SMTC\ duration~    |                      |                      |
| for the SCell being  |                      |                      |
| activated is 0ms;    |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| \- the longest SMTC  |                      |                      |
| duration among all   |                      |                      |
| active servingNOTE   |                      |                      |
| 2:                   |                      |                      |
| $N_{\text{slot}}^{\  |                      |                      |
| text{subframe},\mu}$ |                      |                      |
| is as defined in TS  |                      |                      |
| 38.211 \[6\].        |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

##### 8.2.2.2.3 Interruptions during measurements on deactivated SCC

Interruptions on PCell or activated SCell(s) due to measurements when an
SCell is deactivated are allowed with up to 0.5% probability of missed
ACK/NACK when the configured *measCycleSCell \[2\] is 640 ms or longer.*

-   If the PCell or activated SCell(s) is not in the same band as the
    deactivated SCell, the UE is only allowed to cause interruptions on
    PCell or activated SCell(s) immediately before and immediately after
    an SMTC. Each interruption shall not exceed requirement in Table
    8.2.2.2.2-1.

-   If the PCell or activated SCell(s) is in the same band as the
    deactivated SCell, the UE is only allowed to cause an interruption
    on PCell or activated SCell(s) no earlier than X slots before
    T~SMTC\_duration~ and no later than X slots after T~SMTC\_duration~,
    provided the cell specific reference signals from the active serving
    cells and the deactivated SCell are available in the same slot,
    where X and T~SMTC\_duration~ are given by Table 8.2.2.2.3-1. The
    interruption shall not exceed requirements in Table 8.2.2.2.3-1.

Table 8.2.2.2.3-1: Interruption duration for measurement on deactivated
SCell for intra-band CA

+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
| ![](me          | NR Slot length  | X (slots) | Interruption    |
| dia/image6.wmf) | (ms)            |           | length (slots)  |
| {width="0.15555 |                 |           |                 |
| 555555555556in" |                 |           |                 |
| he              |                 |           |                 |
| ight="0.175in"} |                 |           |                 |
+=================+=================+===========+=================+
| 0               | 1               | 1         | 2 +             |
|                 |                 |           | T~              |
|                 |                 |           | SMTC\_duration~ |
|                 |                 |           | \*              |
|                 |                 |           | $N_{\text       |
|                 |                 |           | {slot}}^{\text{ |
|                 |                 |           | subframe},\mu}$ |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
| 1               | 0.5             | 1         | 2 +             |
|                 |                 |           | T~              |
|                 |                 |           | SMTC\_duration~ |
|                 |                 |           | \*              |
|                 |                 |           | $N_{\text       |
|                 |                 |           | {slot}}^{\text{ |
|                 |                 |           | subframe},\mu}$ |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
| 2               | 0.25            | 2         | 4 +             |
|                 |                 |           | T~              |
|                 |                 |           | SMTC\_duration~ |
|                 |                 |           | \*              |
|                 |                 |           | $N_{\text       |
|                 |                 |           | {slot}}^{\text{ |
|                 |                 |           | subframe},\mu}$ |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
| 3               | 0.125           | 4         | 8 +             |
|                 |                 |           | T~              |
|                 |                 |           | SMTC\_duration~ |
|                 |                 |           | \*              |
|                 |                 |           | $N_{\text       |
|                 |                 |           | {slot}}^{\text{ |
|                 |                 |           | subframe},\mu}$ |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
| NOTE 1:         |                 |           |                 |
| T~              |                 |           |                 |
| SMTC\_duration~ |                 |           |                 |
| measured in     |                 |           |                 |
| subframes is    |                 |           |                 |
| the longest     |                 |           |                 |
| SMTC duration   |                 |           |                 |
| among all above |                 |           |                 |
| active serving  |                 |           |                 |
| cells and the   |                 |           |                 |
| deactivated     |                 |           |                 |
| SCell to be     |                 |           |                 |
| measured;       |                 |           |                 |
|                 |                 |           |                 |
| NOTE 2:         |                 |           |                 |
| $N_{\text       |                 |           |                 |
| {slot}}^{\text{ |                 |           |                 |
| subframe},\mu}$ |                 |           |                 |
| is as defined   |                 |           |                 |
| in TS 38.211    |                 |           |                 |
| \[6\].          |                 |           |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+

##### 8.2.2.2.4 Interruptions at UL carrier RRC reconfiguration

The requirements in this clause shall apply when a supplementary UL
carrier or an UL carrier is configured or de-configured in NR standalone
carrier aggregation as defined in TS 38.331 \[2\].

When an UL carrier or supplementary UL carrier is configured or
de-configured, an interruption of up to the duration shown in table
8.2.2.2.4-1, is allowed during the RRC reconfiguration procedure \[2\]
on PCell and all activated SCells within the same FR as the reconfigured
uplink carrier. The interruption is for both uplink and downlink of
PCell and all the activated SCells within the same FR as the configured
or de-configured UL.

Table 8.2.2.2.4-1: Interruption duration for UL carrier RRC
reconfiguration

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.15555555555555556in" height="0.175in"}   NR Slot length (ms)   Interruption length (slots)
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- -----------------------------
  0                                                                       1                     1
  1                                                                       0.5                   2
  2                                                                       0.25                  4
  3                                                                       0.125                 8

##### 8.2.2.2.5 Interruptions due to Active BWP switching Requirement

The requirements for DCI-based BWP switch, timer-based BWP switch or UL
BWP switch triggered by consistent uplink CCA failures in this clause
apply to the case that the BWP switch is performed on a single CC or
multiple CCs.

When either of the DCI-based, timer-based or RRC-based downlink BWP
switch and/or uplink BWP switch occur on multiple CCs simultaneously or
over partially overlapping period, the interruption requirements
described in this clause apply for each BWP switch.

When UE receives a DCI indicating UE to switch its active BWP involving
changes in any of the parameters listed in Table 8.2.2.2.5-2, the UE is
allowed to cause interruption of up to X slot to other active serving
cells if the UE is not capable of per-FR gap, or if the BWP switching
involves SCS changing. When the BWP switch imposes changes in any of the
parameters listed in Table 8.2.2.2.5-2 and the UE is capable of per-FR
gap the UE is allowed to cause interruption of up to X slot to other
active serving cells in the same frequency range wherein the UE is
performing BWP switching. X is defined in Table 8.2.2.2.5-1. The
starting time of interruption is only allowed within the BWP switching
delay T~BWPswitchDelay~ as defined in clause 8.6.2 when BWP switch
occurs on a single CC. The starting time of interruption caused by each
BWP switch is only allowed within the BWP switch delay
T~MultipleBWPswitchDelay~ +Y as defined in clause 8.6.2A.1 when BWP
switch occurs on multiple CCs. Interruptions are not allowed during BWP
switch involving any other parameter change.

When a BWP timer *bwp-InactivityTimer* defined in TS 38.331 \[2\]
expires, UE is allowed to cause interruption of up to X slot to other
active serving cells due to switching its active BWP involving changes
in any of the parameters listed in Table 8.2.2.2.5-2 if the UE is not
capable of per-FR gap, or if the BWP switching involves SCS changing.
When the BWP switch imposes changes in any of the parameters listed in
Table 8.2.2.2.5-2 and the UE is capable of per-FR gap, the UE is allowed
to cause interruption of up to X slot to other active serving cells in
the same frequency range wherein the UE is performing BWP switching. X
is defined in Table 8.2.2.2.5-1. The starting time of interruption is
only allowed within the BWP switching delay T~BWPswitchDelay~ as defined
in clause 8.6.2 when BWP switch occurs on a single CC. The starting time
of interruption caused by each BWP switch is only allowed within the BWP
switch delay T~MultipleBWPswitchDelay~ as defined in clause 8.6.2B.1
when BWP switch occurs on multiple CCs simultaneously or
**T**~MultipleBWPswitchDelayTotal~ as defined in clause 8.6.2B.2 when
BWP switch occurs on multiple CCs over partially overlapping time
period. Interruptions are not allowed during BWP switch involving any
other parameter change.

When UE receives an RRC reconfiguration that only requests UE to switch
its active BWP on one single CC, the UE is allowed to cause interruption
of up to X slot to other active serving cells due to switching its
active BWP involving changes in any of the parameters listed in Table
8.2.2.2.5-2 if the UE is not capable of per-FR gap, or if the BWP
switching involves SCS changing. When the BWP switch imposes changes in
any of the parameters listed in Table 8.2.2.2.5-2 and the UE is capable
of per-FR gap, the UE is allowed to cause interruption of up to X slot
to other active serving cells in the same frequency range wherein the UE
is performing BWP switching. X is defined in Table 8.2.2.2.5-1. The
interruption is only allowed within the delay T~RRCprocessingDelay~ +
T~BWPswitchDelayRRC~ defined in clause 8.6.3 when BWP switch occurs on a
single CC. The interruption is only allowed within the delay
T~RRCprocessingDelay~ + T~BWPswitchDelayRRC~ + D~RRC~\*(N-1) as defined
in clause 8.6.3A when BWP switch occurs on multiple CCs.

When UL BWP switch is triggered by consistent uplink CCA failures \[7\],
UE is allowed to cause interruption of up to X slot to other active
serving cells due to switching its active UL BWP involving changes in
any of the parameters listed in Table 8.2.2.2.5-2 if the UE is not
capable of per-FR gap, or if the BWP switching involves SCS changing.
When the UL BWP switch imposes changes in any of the parameters listed
in Table 8.2.2.2.5-2 and the UE is capable of per-FR gap, the UE is
allowed to cause interruption of up to X slot to other active serving
cells in the same frequency range wherein the UE is performing UL BWP
switching. X is defined in Table 8.2.2.2.5-1. The starting time of
interruption is only allowed within the UL BWP switching delay
T~BWPswitchDelay~ as defined in clause 8.6.2. Interruptions are not
allowed during BWP switch involving other parameter change.

Table 8.2.2.2.5-1: Interruption length X

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.16875in" height="0.16875in"}   NR Slot       Interruption length X (slots)
  ------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- -------------------------------
                                                                length (ms)   
  0                                                             1             1
  1                                                             0.5           1
  2                                                             0.25          3
  3                                                             0.125         5
  Note1: void                                                                 

Table 8.2.2.2.5-2: Parameters which cause interruption other than SCS

  Parameters               Comment
  ------------------------ ----------------------
  *locationAndBandwidth*   From TS 38.331 \[2\]
  *nrofSRS-Ports*          
  *maxMIMO-Layers-r16*     

##### 8.2.2.2.6 Interruptions at inter-frequency SFTD measurement

The requirements in this clause concern interruptions on PCell, as well
as on activated SCells in MCG, when the UE is performing SFTD
measurements on inter-frequency neighbour cell(s). The following
requirements apply when no PSCell is configured.

For a UE with per-FR gap capability:

\- for neighbour cell in FR1:

\- the percentage of interrupted slots on uplink and downlink on FR1
serving cells during the SFTD measurement period T~measure\_SFTD1~
specified in Clause 9.3.8 shall not exceed the percentages specified in
Table 8.2.2.2.6-1. No interruption is allowed on FR2 serving cells.

\- the length of each interruption on FR1 serving cells shall not exceed
the number of slots specified in Table 8.2.2.2.6-2.

\- for neighbour cell in FR2:

\- the percentage of interrupted slots on uplink and downlink on FR2
serving cells during the SFTD measurement period T~measure\_SFTD1~
specified in Clause 9.3.8 shall not exceed the percentages specified in
Table 8.2.2.2.6-1. No interruption is allowed on FR1 serving cells.

\- the length of each interruption on FR2 serving cells shall not exceed
the number of slots specified in Table 8.2.2.2.6-2.

For a UE with per-UE gap capability:

\- for neighbour cell in FR1 or FR2:

\- the percentage of interrupted slots on uplink and downlink on FR1 and
FR2 serving cells during the SFTD measurement period T~measure\_SFTD1~
specified in Clause 9.3.8 shall not exceed the percentages specified in
Table 8.2.2.2.6-1.

\- the length of each interruption on FR1 and FR2 serving cells shall
not exceed the number of slots specified in Table 8.2.2.2.6-2.

Table 8.2.2.2.6-1: Requirements on maximum percentage of interrupted
slots in serving cell in inter-frequency SFTD

  SFTD configuration   Serving cell µ   Neighbour cell SMTC periodicity                               
  -------------------- ---------------- --------------------------------- ------ ------ ------ ------ -------
                                        5ms                               10ms   20ms   40ms   80ms   160ms
  With RSRP            0                8.4%                              6.3%   8.4%   6.3%   5.3%   4.7%
  report               1                                                                              
                       2                                                                              
                       3                                                                              
  Without RSRP         0                11.4%                             8.6%   7.9%   6.8%   6.3%   6.0%
  report               1                                                                              
                       2                                                                              
                       3                                                                              

Table 8.2.2.2.6-2: Interruption duration for FR1 serving cell in
inter-frequency SFTD with neighbour cell in FR1

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.15555555555555556in" height="0.175in"}   NR Slot length (ms)   Interruption length (slots)
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- -----------------------------
  0                                                                       1                     1
  1                                                                       0.5                   2
  2                                                                       0.25                  4
  3                                                                       0.125                 8

Table 8.2.2.2.6-3: Void

Table 8.2.2.2.6-4: Void

##### 8.2.2.2.7 Interruptions at SCell activation/deactivation with multiple downlink SCells

The requirements in this clause shall apply for the UE configured with
PCell and up to 7 downlink SCell(s).

When multiple SCell is activated or deactivated by one single MAC CE
command:

\- an interruption on any active serving cell is specified as in clause
8.2.2.2.2:

##### 8.2.2.2.8 Interruptions due to UE-specific CBW change

The requirements in clause 8.2.1.2.11 apply for this clause.

##### 8.2.2.2.9 Interruptions at NR SRS carrier based switching

SRS transmission can be configured on a carrier not configured for
PUCCH/PUSCH transmission. When a UE needs to transmit periodic,
semi-persistent or aperiodic SRS on a carrier of a serving cell not
configured for PUCCH/PUSCH transmission, the UE can perform carrier
based switching to one or more carriers not configured for PUCCH/PUSCH
transmission from a carrier with PUCCH/PUSCH transmission or from a
carrier not configured for PUCCH/PUSCH transmission prior to
transmitting SRS, provided that:

\- switching is from a configured carrier to another activated carrier;

\- the carrier of SCells not configured for PUCCH/PUSCH transmission to
which SRS carrier based switching is performed is indicated by DCI SRS
request field for aperiodic SRS transmission, or indicated by MAC-CE for
semi-persistent SRS transmission, or configured via RRC for periodic SRS
transmission;

\- the serving cell, from which SRS carrier based switching is performed
and whose UL transmission may therefore be interrupted, is indicated by
srs-SwitchFromServCellIndex and srs-SwitchFromCarrier in TS38.331 \[2\];

\- the SRS switching is not colliding with any other transmission with
higher priority defined in TS 38.214 \[26\].

\- the SRS switching is not colliding with any SSB/CSI-RS based L3
measurements and the measurements for RLM/BFD.

\- for UE, which does not support simultaneous reception and
transmission for inter-band TDD CA specified in TS 38.331 \[2\], and is
compliant to the requirements for inter-band CA with uplink in one NR
band and without simultaneous Rx/Tx specified in TS 38.101 \[5\], the
SRS transmission are not simultaneously scheduled with DL SSB/CSI-RS for
L3 or L1 measurements transmission on other carriers.

The UE shall not perform SRS carrier based switching if the above
conditions cannot be met.

When SRS carrier based switching is performed between carriers, the UE
is allowed interruptions on any active serving cell if UE is not capable
of Per-FR gap, or on active serving cell(s) in FR1 if UE is capable of
Per-FR gap, during the switching to the carrier of a serving cell in FR1
not configured for PUCCH/PUSCH transmission,

\- with up to X1 slot as specified in Table 8.2.2.2.9-1.

When SRS carrier based switching is performed between carriers, the UE
is allowed interruptions on any active serving cell if UE is not capable
of Per-FR gap, or on active serving cell(s) in FR2 if UE is capable of
Per-FR gap, during the switching to the carrier of a serving cell in FR2
not configured for PUCCH/PUSCH transmission,

\- with up to X2 slot as specified in Table 8.2.2.2.9-2.

When SRS carrier based switching is performed between carriers, the UE
is allowed interruptions on any active serving cell if UE is not capable
of Per-FR gap, or on active serving cell(s) in FR1 if UE is capable of
Per-FR gap, during the switching from the carrier of a serving cell in
FR1 not configured for PUCCH/PUSCH transmission,

\- with up to X1 slot as specified in Table 8.2.2.2.9-1.

When SRS carrier based switching is performed between carriers, the UE
is allowed interruptions on any active serving cell if UE is not capable
of Per-FR gap, or on active serving cell(s) in FR2 if UE is capable of
Per-FR gap, during the switching from the carrier of a serving cell in
FR2 not configured for PUCCH/PUSCH transmission,

\- with up to X2 slot as specified in Table 8.2.2.2.9-2.

Table 8.2.2.2.9-1: Interruption length X1 (slot)

                                                                                                                     NR Slot length        SRS carrier                    Interruption length X1 (slots)                
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------- ------------------------------ --------------------------------------------- ----
  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.15555555555555556in" height="0.175in"}                                              (ms) of victim cell   switching time (us)^Note\ 1^   Sub carrier spacing for agressor cell (kHz)   
                                                                                                                                                                          15                                            30
  0                                                                                                                  1                     ≤ 200                          2                                             2
                                                                                                                                           300, 500                       2                                             2
                                                                                                                                           900                            2                                             2
  1                                                                                                                  0.5                   ≤ 200                          3                                             2
                                                                                                                                           300, 500                       3                                             3
                                                                                                                                           900                            4                                             4
  2                                                                                                                  0.25                  ≤ 200                          4                                             3
                                                                                                                                           300, 500                       5                                             4
                                                                                                                                           900                            7                                             6
  3                                                                                                                  0.125                 ≤ 200                          7                                             5
                                                                                                                                           300, 500                       9                                             7
                                                                                                                                           900                            12                                            10
  Note1: NR SRS carrier switching time is UE capability indicated by higher layer parameter *SRS-SwitchingTimeNR*.                                                                                                      

Table 8.2.2.2.9-2: Interruption length X2 (slot)

                                                                                                                     NR Slot                      SRS carrier                     Interruption length X2 (slots)                
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------- ------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----
  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.15555555555555556in" height="0.175in"}                                              length (ms) of victim cell   switching time (us) ^Note\ 1^   Sub carrier spacing for agressor cell (kHz)   
                                                                                                                                                                                  60                                            120
  0                                                                                                                  1                            ≤ 200                           2                                             2
  1                                                                                                                  0.5                          ≤ 200                           2                                             2
  2                                                                                                                  0.25                         ≤ 200                           3                                             3
  3                                                                                                                  0.125                        ≤ 200                           4                                             4
  Note1: NR SRS carrier switching time is UE capability indicated by higher layer parameter *SRS-SwitchingTimeNR*.                                                                                                              

For intra-band SRS carrier switching in FR1 or FR2, interruptions in
Table 8.2.2.2.9-1 and in Table 8.2.2.2.9-2 based on SRS carrier
switching time ≤ 200us shall apply. For inter-band SRS carrier switching
in FR1, interruptions in Table 8.2.2.2.9-1 and in Table 8.2.2.2.9-2
shall apply.

##### 8.2.2.2.10 DL Interruptions at UE switching between two uplink carriers

The DL interruption requirements at dynamic switching between two uplink
carreirs specified in this clause are applicable for an uplink band pair
of an inter-band UL CA configuration when the capability
*uplinkTxSwitchingPeriod* is present, and is only applicable for uplink
switching mechanism specified in clause 6.1.6 of TS 38.214 \[26\], where
NR uplink carrier 1 is capable of one transmit antenna connector and NR
uplink carrier 2 is capable of two transmit antenna connectors, and the
two uplink carriers are in different bands with different carrier
frequencies.

When dynamic switching between two uplink carriers is conducted, UE is
allowed to cause DL interruption of X OFDM symbols in NR downlink
carrier(s) as indicated by *uplinkTxSwitching-DL-Interruption* \[2\].
The DL interruption starts from the first OFDM symbol which fully or
partially overlaps with the UL switching period located in either NR
carrier 1 or carrier 2 as indicated in RRC signalling \[2\]. The DL
interruption lengths of X are defined in Table 8.2.2.2.10-1.

No DL interruption is allowed in the NR downlink carrier(s) which is not
indicated by *uplinkTxSwitching-DL-Interruption*. No DL interruption is
allowed for some inter-band UL CA configurations as specified in clause
5.2A.2 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\].

Table 8.2.2.2.10-1: DL interruption length on NR carrier(s) in the unit
of OFDM symbols (X) for switching between two uplink carriers

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.16875in" height="0.16875in"}                             NR Slot length (ms)   Uplink Tx switching period ^Note1^           
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- ------------------------------------ ------- -------
                                                                                                                35us                                 140us   210us
  0                                                                                       1                     2                                    3       4
  1                                                                                       0.5                   3                                    6       7
  2                                                                                       0.25                  4                                    10      14
  Note 1: Uplink Tx switching period depends on UE capability *uplinkTxSwitchingPeriod*                                                                      

##### 8.2.2.2.11 Interruptions at direct SCell activation

When one or multiple SCell(s) are directly activated at SCell addition,

\- the UE is allowed an interruption on any active serving cell:

\- of up to the duration shown in Table 8.2.2.2.1-1, if the active
serving cell is not in the same band as the SCell being directly
activated, or

\- of up to the duration shown in Table 8.2.2.2.1-2, if the active
serving cells are in the same band as the SCell being activated provided
the cell specific reference signals from the active serving cells and
the SCell being activated are available in the same slot.

##### 8.2.2.2.12 Interruptions due to SCell dormancy

##### 8.2.2.2.12.1 Interruptions due to SCell dormancy switch {#interruptions-due-to-scell-dormancy-switch-1 .H6}

When one SCell in MCG is switched from dormancy to non-dormancy or from
non-dormancy to dormancy \[7\] when UE is in DRX active time,

\- the UE is allowed an interruption on active serving cell in MCG as
defined in clause 8.2.2.2.5, except that the interruption is allowed
regardless of which parameters change between the dormant BWP and the
non-dormant BWP

\- The starting time of interruption shall be within the dormancy
switching delay as defined in clause 8.6.2.

When multiple SCells in MCG are switched from dormancy to non-dormancy
or vice versa when the UE is in DRX active time, the interruption
requirement described above applies for each BWP switch.

##### 8.2.2.2.12.2 Interruptions due to CQI measurements during SCell dormancy  {#interruptions-due-to-cqi-measurements-during-scell-dormancy-1 .H6}

When one or more SCells are in dormancy, the UE is for the purpose of
CQI measurements on the dormant SCell(s) allowed to cause interruptions
to non-dormant serving cell(s).

The rate of ACK/NACK feedback loss on any non-dormant serving cell
resulting from CQI measurements on dormant SCells shall not exceed 0.5%.

##### 8.2.2.2.12.3 Interruptions due to RRM measurements during SCell dormancy {#interruptions-due-to-rrm-measurements-during-scell-dormancy-1 .H6}

When one or more SCells are in dormancy, the UE is for the purpose of
RRM measurements on the dormant SCell(s) allowed to cause interruptions
to non-dormant serving cell(s).

The rate of ACK/NACK feedback loss on any non-dormant serving cell
resulting from RRM measurements on dormant SCells shall not exceed 1.0%.

##### 8.2.2.2.13 Interruptions at transitions between active and non-active during DRX

For the UEs that are capable of *secondaryDRX-Group*\[14\] in FR1+FR2
CA, *when two DRX groups are configured e*ach group of serving cells, no
interruption is allowed for UEs supporting either per UE or per FR gaps.

##### 8.2.2.2.14 Interruptions when identifying CGI of an NR cell with autonomous gaps

When a UE is identifying CGI of an NR cell with autonomous gaps, the UE
is allowed interruptions on PCell or any activated SCell:

\- with up to K1 interruptions with interrupted slots up to interruption
length X1 specified in Table 8.2.2.2.14-1 for each interruption during
MIB decoding time period T~MIB~ (ms) specified in clause 9.11.

\- with up to L1 interruptions with interrupted slots up to interruption
length Y1 specified in Table 8.2.2.2.14-1 for each interruption during
SIB1 decoding time period T~SIB1~ (ms) specified in clause 9.11 for SSB
and CORESET for RMSI scheduling multiplexing patterns 1.

\- with up to L2 interruptions with interrupted slots up to interruption
length Y2 specified in Table 8.2.2.2.14-1 for each interruption during
SIB1 decoding time period T~SIB1~ (ms) specified in clause 9.11 for SSB
and CORESET for RMSI scheduling multiplexing patterns 2 and 3.

Where:

\- K1 = 6 for the target cell carrier frequency on FR1 and K1 = 25 for
the target cell carrier frequency on FR2, and

\- L1 = T~SIB1~/20, and

\- L2 = T~SIB1~/T~SMTC~, where T~SMTC~ is the periodicity of the SMTC
occasion configured for the target cell carrier .

Table 8.2.2.2.14-1: Interruption length X1, Y1 and Y2 during
measurements with autonomous gaps

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.16111111111111112in" height="0.17777777777777778in"}   NR Slot length (ms) of victim cell   Interruption length X1 (slots)   Interruption length Y1 (slots)   Interruption length Y2 (slots)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ -------------------------------- -------------------------------- --------------------------------
  0                                                                                     1                                    6                                7                                6
  1                                                                                     0.5                                  12                               13                               10
  2                                                                                     0.25                                 24                               25                               19
  3                                                                                     0.125                                48                               49                               37

##### 8.2.2.2.15 Interruptions when identifying CGI of an E-UTRA cell with autonomous gaps

When a UE is identifying CGI of an E-UTRA FDD cell or E-UTRA TDD cell
with autonomous gaps, within time period T~identify\_CGI,\ E-UTRA~
specified in clause 9.4.7.1, the UE shall be able to transmit at least
the number of ACK/NACKs specified in Table 8.2.2.2.15-1 on PCell or any
activated SCell in the frequency range where autonomous gaps are used,
provided that:

\- there is continuous DL data allocation,

\- no DRX cycle is used,

\- no measurement gaps are configured,

\- only one code word is transmitted in each slot,

\- 2 slot ACK/NACK feedback is configured,

\- 20 ms SMTC period is configured.

Table 8.2.2.2.15-1: Minimum number of ACK/NACKs transmitted by the UE
during T~identify\_CGI,\ E-UTRA~

+----------------------------+---------------------------+---------+
| Minimum number of          | SCS                       |         |
| transmitted ACK/NACKs      |                           |         |
+============================+===========================+=========+
|                            | Duplex mode configuration | SCS     |
+----------------------------+---------------------------+---------+
|                            | Duplex mode configuration | SCS     |
+----------------------------+---------------------------+---------+
| 84                         | FDD                       | 15 kHz  |
+----------------------------+---------------------------+---------+
| 193                        | FDD                       | 30 kHz  |
+----------------------------+---------------------------+---------+
| 402                        | FDD                       | 60 kHz  |
+----------------------------+---------------------------+---------+
| 28                         | TDD ^Note\ 1^             | 15 kHz  |
+----------------------------+---------------------------+---------+
| 81                         | TDD ^Note\ 1^             | 30 kHz  |
+----------------------------+---------------------------+---------+
| 159                        | TDD ^Note\ 1^             | 60 kHz  |
+----------------------------+---------------------------+---------+
| 233                        | TDD ^Note\ 2^             | 60 kHz  |
+----------------------------+---------------------------+---------+
| 491                        | TDD ^Note\ 2^             | 120 kHz |
+----------------------------+---------------------------+---------+
| NOTE 1: TDD UL-DL          |                           |         |
| configuration is as        |                           |         |
| specified in Table         |                           |         |
| A.3.3.1-1 of TS 38.101-1   |                           |         |
| \[18\].                    |                           |         |
|                            |                           |         |
| NOTE 2: TDD UL-DL          |                           |         |
| configuration is as        |                           |         |
| specified in Table         |                           |         |
| A.3.3.1-1 of TS 38.101-2   |                           |         |
| \[19\].                    |                           |         |
+----------------------------+---------------------------+---------+

### 8.2.3 NE-DC Interruptions 

#### 8.2.3.1 Introduction

This clause contains the requirements related to the interruptions on
PCell and SCell, when

E-UTRA PSCell transitions between active and non-active during DRX, or

E-UTRA PSCell transitions from non-DRX to DRX, or

E-UTRA PSCell/SCell in SCG or SCell in MCG is added or released, or

E-UTRA PSCell/SCell in SCG or SCell(s) in MCG is activated or
deactivated, or

measurements on SCC with deactivated SCell in either E-UTRA SCG or NR
MCG or

PUSCH/PUCCH carrier configuration and deconfiguration in NR MCG, or

UL/DL BWP is switched on PCell or SCell in MCG, or

UE-specific CBW is changed on PCell or SCell in MCG, or

CGI reading of an NR neighbour cell with autonomous gaps, or

CGI reading of an E-UTRA neighbour cell with autonomous gaps.

NR SRS carrier based switching, or

E-UTRA SRS carrier based switching.

The requirements shall apply for NE-DC with an NR PCell.

This clause contains interruptions where victim cell is PCell or SCell
belonging to MCG. Requirements for interruptions requirements when the
victim cell is E-UTRA PSCell or E-UTRA SCell belonging to SCG are
specified in TS 36.133 \[15\].

For a UE which does not support per-FR measurement gap, interruptions to
the PCell, E-UTRA PSCell or activated MCG SCells may be caused by EUTRA
PSCell, EUTRA SCells or SCells on any frequency range. For UE which
support per-FR gap, interruptions to the PCell, E-UTRA PSCell or
activated MCG SCells may be caused by EUTRA PSCell, EUTRA SCells or
SCells on the same frequency range as the victim cell.

#### 8.2.3.2 Requirements

##### 8.2.3.2.1 Interruptions at transitions between active and non-active during DRX

Interruption on PCell and the activated SCell if configured due to
E-UTRA PSCell transitions between active and non-active druing DRX when
PCell or SCell is in non-DRX are allowed with up to 1% probability of
missed ACK/NACK when the configured E-UTRA PSCell DRX cycle is less than
640 ms, and 0.625% probability of missed ACK/NACK is allowed when the
configured E-UTRA PCell DRX cycle is 640 ms or longer. Each interruption
shall not exceed X slot as defined in table 8.2.3.2.1-1.

Table 8.2.3.2.1-1: Interruption length X at transition between active
and non-active during DRX

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.16875in" height="0.16875in"}   NR slot length (ms)   Interruption length X (slots)   
  ------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- ------------------------------- -------
                                                                                      Sync                            Async
  0                                                             1                     1                               2
  1                                                             0.5                   1                               2
  2                                                             0.25                  3                               
  3                                                             0.125                 5                               

When both PCell and E-UTRA PSCell are in DRX, no interruption is
allowed.

##### 8.2.3.2.2 Interruptions at transitions from non-DRX to DRX

Interruption on PCell and the activated SCell if configured due to
E-UTRA PSCell transitions from non-DRX to DRX when PCell or SCell is in
non-DRX shall not exceed X slots as defined in table 8.2.3.2.1-1.

##### 8.2.3.2.3 Interruptions at PSCell/SCell addition/release

The requirements in this clause shall apply for the UE configured with
E-UTRA PSCell.

When one E-UTRA PSCell/SCell in SCG is added or released:

\- the UE is allowed an interruption on any active serving cell in MCG:

\- of up to X1 slots, if the active serving cell is not in the same band
as the E-UTRA PSCell/SCell being added or released, or

\- of up to max{Y1 slots+ T~SMTC\_duration~, 5ms} if the active serving
cells are in the same band as the E-UTRA PSCell/SCell being added or
released, provided the cell specific reference signals from the active
serving cells and the E-UTRA PSCell/SCell being added or released are
available in the same slot, where T~SMTC\_duration~ is the longest SMTC
duration among all above activated serving cells in MCG;

Where X1 and Y1 are specified in Table 8.2.3.2.3-1.

When one SCell in MCG is added or released:

\- the UE is allowed an interruption on any activated serving cell in
MCG:

\- of up to X1 slots, if the active serving cell and the SCell being
added or released are in a FR1 band pair or in a FR1+FR2 band pair.

\- of up to X1 slot, if the active serving cell and the SCell being
added or released are in a FR2 band pair and UE is capable of
independent beam management on this FR2 band pair.

or

\- of up to Y1 slots + T~SMTC\_duration~ if the active serving cells are
in the same band as any of the SCells being added or released, provided
the cell specific reference signals from the active serving cells and
the SCells being added or released are available in the same slot,
where, T~SMTC\_duration~ is

\- the longest SMTC duration among all above active serving cells in MCG
and the SCell being added when one SCell is added. If SSB configuration
(*absoluteFrequencySSB*) but no SMTC configuration is provided for the
SCell being added, the SSB transmission periodicity is assumed to be 5ms
and T~SMTC\ duration~ for the SCell being added is x ms, where x = the
number of consecutive subframes containing all SSBs in one SSB burst
transmitted by the SCell being added. If no SSB configuration
(*absoluteFrequencySSB*) nor SMTC configuration is provided for the
SCell being added, T~SMTC\ duration~ for the SCell being added is 0ms;

\- the longest SMTC duration among all above active serving cells in MCG
when one SCell is released.

Where X1 and Y1 are specified in Table 8.2.3.2.3-2.

Table 8.2.3.2.3-1: Interruption length X1 and Y1 at E-UTRA PSCell/SCell
addition/release

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.16875in" height="0.16875in"}   NR Slot length   Interruption length X1 (slots)   Interruption length Y1 (slots)          
  ------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- -------------------------------- -------------------------------- ------ -------
                                                                (ms)             Sync                             Async                            Sync   Async
  0                                                             1                1                                2                                1      2
  1                                                             0.5              2                                3                                2      3
  2                                                             0.25             5                                4                                5      
  3                                                             0.125            9                                N/A                              N/A    

Table 8.2.3.2.3-2: Interruption length X1 and Y1 at SCell
addition/Release

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.16875in" height="0.16875in"}   NR Slot length (ms) of victim cell   Interruption length X1 (slots)                   Interruption length Y1 (slots)   
  ------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---
  0                                                             1                                    1                                                1                                
  1                                                             0.5                                  2                                                2                                
  2                                                             0.25                                 Both aggressor cell and victim cell are on FR2   4                                4
                                                                                                     Either aggressor cell or victim cell is on FR1   5                                
  3                                                             0.125                                Aggressor cell is on FR2                         8                                8
                                                                                                     Aggressor cell is on FR1                         9                                

##### 8.2.3.2.4 Interruptions at SCell activation/deactivation

The requirements in this clause shall apply for the UE configured with
E-UTRA PSCell and one SCell.

When one E-UTRA SCell in SCG is activated from deactivated or dormant
state, or deactivated from activated or dormant state:

> \- the UE is allowed an interruption on any active serving cell in
> MCG:

\- of up to X2 slots, if the active serving cell is not in the same band
as the E-UTRA SCell being activated or deactivated, or

\- of up to max{Y2 slots + T~SMTC\_duration~, 5ms} if the active serving
cells are in the same band as the E-UTRA SCell being activated or
deactivated, provided the cell specific reference signals from the
active serving cells and the E-UTRA SCell being activated or deactivated
are available in the same slot, where T~SMTC\_duration~ is the longest
SMTC duration among all above active serving cells in MCG.

> Where X2 and Y2 are specified in Table 8.2.3.2.4-1.

Where X2 and Y2 are specified in Table 8.2.3.2.4-1.

When one SCell in MCG is activated or deactivated:

\- the UE is allowed an interruption on any serving cell in MCG:

> \- of up to X2 slots, if the active serving cell is not in the same
> band as the SCell being activated or deactivated, or

\- of up to Y2 slots + T~SMTC\_duration~ if the active serving cells are
in the same band as the SCell being activated or deactivated, provided
the cell specific reference signals from the active serving cells and
the SCell being activated or deactivated are available in the same slot,
where, T~SMTC\_duration~ is

\- the longest SMTC duration among all above active serving cells in MCG
and the SCell being activated when one SCell is activated, If SSB
configuration (*absoluteFrequencySSB*) but no SMTC configuration is
provided for the SCell being activated, the SSB transmission periodicity
is assumed to be 5ms and T~SMTC\ duration~ for the SCell being activated
is x ms, where x = the number of consecutive subframes containing all
SSBs in one SSB burst transmitted by the SCell being activated. If no
SSB configuration (*absoluteFrequencySSB*) nor SMTC configuration is
provided for the SCell being activated, T~SMTC\ duration~ for the SCell
being activated is 0ms;

\- the longest SMTC duration among all above active serving cells in MCG
when one SCell is deactivated.

Where X2 and Y2 are specified in Table 8.2.3.2.4-2.

Table 8.2.3.2.4-1: Interruption length X2 and Y2 at E-UTRA SCell
activation/deactivation

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.16875in" height="0.16875in"}   NR Slot length (ms)   Interruption length X2 (slots)   Interruption length Y2 (slots)          
  ------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- -------------------------------- -------------------------------- ------ -------
                                                                                      Sync                             Async                            Sync   Async
  0                                                             1                     1                                2                                1      2
  1                                                             0.5                   1                                2                                1      2
  2                                                             0.25                  3                                2                                3      
  3                                                             0.125                 5                                N/A                              N/A    

Table 8.2.3.2.4-2: Interruption length X2 and Y2 at SCell
activation/deactivation

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.16875in" height="0.16875in"}   NR Slot length (ms) of victim cell   Interruption length X2 (slots)                   Interruption length Y2 (slots)   
  ------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---
  0                                                             1                                    1                                                1                                
  1                                                             0.5                                  1                                                1                                
  2                                                             0.25                                 Both aggressor cell and victim cell are on FR2   2                                2
                                                                                                     Either aggressor cell or victim cell is on FR1   3                                
  3                                                             0.125                                Aggressor cell is on FR2                         4                                4
                                                                                                     Aggressor cell is on FR1                         5                                

##### 8.2.3.2.5 Interruptions during measurements on SCC

##### 8.2.3.2.5.1 Interruptions during measurements on deactivated NR SCC {#interruptions-during-measurements-on-deactivated-nr-scc-1 .H6}

Interruption on PCell and other activated SCell(s) during measurement on
the deactivated NR SCC shall meet requirements in clause 8.2.2.2.3.

##### 8.2.3.2.5.2 Interruptions during measurements on deactivated E-UTRAN SCC {#interruptions-during-measurements-on-deactivated-e-utran-scc-1 .H6}

When one E-UTRA SCell in SCG is deactivated, the UE is allowed due to
measurements on the E-UTRA SCC with the deactivated E-UTRA SCell:

\- an interruption on PCell or any activated SCell with up to 0.5%
probability of missed ACK/NACK when any of the configured
*measCycleSCell* \[15\] for the deactivated E-UTRA SCells is 640 ms or
longer.

\- an interruption on PCell or any activated SCell with up to 0.5%
probability of missed ACK/NACK regardless of the configured
*measCycleSCell* \[15\] for the deactivated E-UTRA SCells if indicated
by the network using IE *allowInterruptions* \[15\].

Each interruption shall not exceed

\- X3 slots, if the PCell or activated SCell is not in the same band as
the E-UTRA deactivated SCC being measured, or

\- Y3 slots + SMTC duration, if the PCell or activated SCell is in the
same band as the E-UTRA deactivated SCC being measured, provided the
cell specific reference signals from the PCell or activated SCell and
the E-UTRA deactivated SCC being measured are available in the same
slot.

Where X3 and Y3 are specified in Table 8.2.3.2.5-1

Table 8.2.3.2.5-1: Interruption length X3 and Y3 at measurements on
deactivated E-UTRA SCC

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.16875in" height="0.16875in"}   NR Slot length   Interruption length X3 (slots)   Interruption length Y3 (slot)          
  ------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- -------------------------------- ------------------------------- ------ -------
                                                                (ms)             Sync                             Async                           Sync   Async
  0                                                             1                1                                2                               1      2
  1                                                             0.5              1                                2                               1      2
  2                                                             0.25             3                                2                               3      
  3                                                             0.125            5                                N/A                             N/A    

##### 8.2.3.2.5.3 Interruptions during CQI measurements on dormant E-UTRAN SCC {#interruptions-during-cqi-measurements-on-dormant-e-utran-scc .H6}

When one E-UTRA SCell in SCG is dormant, the UE is allowed due to CQI
measurements on the dormant E-UTRA SCell:

\- an interruption on PCell or any activated SCell with up to 0.5%
probability of missed ACK/NACK.

Each interruption shall not exceed

\- X3 slots, if the PCell or activated SCell is not in the same band as
the E-UTRA dormant SCell being measured, or

\- Y3 slots + SMTC duration, if the PCell or activated SCell is in the
same band as the E-UTRA dormant SCell being measured, provided the cell
specific reference signals from the PSCell or activated SCell and the
E-UTRA dormant SCell being measured are available in the same slot.

Where X3 and Y3 are defined in Table 8.2.3.2.5.2-1.

##### 8.2.3.2.5.4 Interruptions during RRM measurements on dormant E-UTRAN SCC {#interruptions-during-rrm-measurements-on-dormant-e-utran-scc-1 .H6}

When one E-UTRA SCell in SCG is dormant, the UE is allowed due to RRM
measurements on the E-UTRA SCC with the dormant E-UTRA SCell:

\- an interruption on PCell or any activated SCell with up to 0.5%
probability of missed ACK/NACK.

Each interruption shall not exceed

\- X3 slots, if the PCell or activated SCell is not in the same band as
the E-UTRA dormant SCC being measured, or

\- Y3 slots + SMTC duration, if the PCell or activated SCell is in the
same band as the E-UTRA dormant SCC being measured, provided the cell
specific reference signals from the PSCell or activated SCell and the
E-UTRA dormant SCC being measured are available in the same slot.

Where X3 and Y3 are defined in Table 8.2.3.2.5.2-1.

##### 8.2.3.2.6 Interruptions at UL carrier RRC reconfiguration

The requirements in this clause shall apply when a supplementary UL
carrier or an UL carrier is configured or de-configured in NE-DC.

When an UL carrier or supplementary UL carrier is configured or
deconfigured, an interruption of up to X4 slot as specified in Table
8.2.3.2.6-1, is allowed during the RRC reconfiguration procedure in
TS 38.331 \[2\] on PCell, all activated SCells within the same FR as the
reconfigured uplink carrier. The interruption is for both uplink and
downlink of PCell, all activated E-UTRA SCells, E-UTRA PSCell and all
activated SCells within the same FR as the configured or de-configured
UL.

Table 8.2.3.2.6-1: Interruption length X4 at UL carrier RRC
reconfiguration

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.16875in" height="0.16875in"}   NR Slot length (ms)   Interruption length X4 (slots)   
  ------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- -------------------------------- -------
                                                                                      Sync                             Async
  0                                                             1                     1                                2
  1                                                             0.5                   2                                3
  2                                                             0.25                  5                                
  3                                                             0.125                 9                                

##### 8.2.3.2.7 Interruptions due to Active BWP switching Requirement

The requirements for DCI-based BWP switch , timer-based BWP switch or UL
BWP switch triggered by consistent uplink CCA failures in this clause
apply to the case that the BWP switch is performed on a single CC or
multiple CCs.

When either of the DCI-based, timer-based or RRC-based downlink BWP
switch and/or uplink BWP switch occur on multiple CCs simultaneously or
over partially overlapping period, the interruption requirements
described in this clause apply for each BWP switch.

When UE receives a DCI indicating the UE to switch its active BWP, or
when a BWP timer *bwp-InactivityTimer* defined in TS 38.331 \[2\]
expires, or when the UE receives an RRC command indicating the UE to
switch its active BWP or when UL BWP switch is triggered by consistent
uplink CCA failures, the UE is allowed an interruption on PCell and any
activated SCells as defined in clause 8.2.2.2.5.

##### 8.2.3.2.8 Interruptions at direct SCell activation and hibernation

##### 8.2.3.2.8.1 Interruptions during direct SCell activation and hibernation of E-UTRA SCell {#interruptions-during-direct-scell-activation-and-hibernation-of-e-utra-scell-1 .H6}

When one E-UTRA SCell in SCG is directly activated and hibernated:

\- the UE is allowed an interruption on any active serving cell in MCG:

\- of up to X1 slot, if the active serving cell is not in the same band
as any of the E-UTRA SCells being directly activated or hibernated, or

\- of up to max{Y1 slot + T~SMTC\_duration~, 5ms} if the active serving
cells are in the same band as any of the E-UTRA SCells being directly
activated or hibernated, provided the cell specific reference signals
from the active serving cells and the E-UTRA SCells being directly
activated or hibernated are available in the same slot, where
T~SMTC\_duration~ is the longest SMTC duration among all above active
serving cells in MCG.

Where X1 and Y1 are specified in Table 8.2.3.2.3-1.

##### 8.2.3.2.8.2 Interruptions during direct SCell activation {#interruptions-during-direct-scell-activation-1 .H6}

When one or multiple SCell(s) in MCG are directly activated at SCell
addition:

\- the UE is allowed an interruption on any active serving cell in MCG:

\- of up to X1 slot, if the active serving cell is not in the same band
as the SCell being directly activated, or

\- of up to max{Y1 slot + T~SMTC\_duration~, 5ms} if the active serving
cells are in the same band as the SCell being directly activated,
provided the cell specific reference signals from the active serving
cells and the SCell being directly activated are available in the same
slot, where T~SMTC\_duration~ is the longest SMTC duration among all
above active serving cells in MCG.

Where X1 and Y1 are specified in Table 8.2.3.2.3-2.

##### 8.2.3.2.9 Interruptions at SCell hibernation

When one E-UTRA SCell in SCG is hibernated:

\- the UE is allowed an interruption on any active serving cell in MCG:

\- of up to X2 slot, if the active serving cell is not in the same band
as any of the E-UTRA SCells being hibernated, or

\- of up to max{Y2 slot + T~SMTC\_duration~, 5ms} if the active serving
cells are in the same band as any of the E-UTRA SCells being hibernated,
provided the cell specific reference signals from the active serving
cells and the E-UTRA SCells being hibernated are available in the same
slot, where T~SMTC\_duration~ is the longest SMTC duration among all
above active serving cells in MCG.

Where X2 and Y2 are specified in Table 8.2.3.2.4-1.

##### 8.2.3.2.10 Interruptions at SCell activation/deactivation with multiple downlink SCells

The requirements in this clause shall apply for the UE configured with
E-UTRA PSCell and up to 6 downlink SCell(s).

When multiple SCells in MCG are activated or deactivated by one single
MAC CE command:

\- an interruption on any serving cell in MCG is specified as in clause
8.2.3.2.4.

##### 8.2.3.2.11 Interruptions at NR SRS carrier based switching

SRS transmission can be configured on a carrier not configured for
PUCCH/PUSCH transmission. When a UE needs to transmit periodic,
semi-persistent or aperiodic SRS on a carrier of a serving cell not
configured for PUCCH/PUSCH transmission, the UE can perform carrier
based switching to one or more carriers not configured for PUCCH/PUSCH
transmission from a carrier with PUCCH/PUSCH transmission or from a
carrier not configured for PUCCH/PUSCH transmission prior to
transmitting SRS, provided that:

\- switching is from a configured carrier to another activated carrier;

\- the carrier of SCells not configured for PUCCH/PUSCH transmission to
which SRS carrier based switching is performed is indicated by DCI SRS
request field for aperiodic SRS transmission, or indicated by MAC-CE for
semi-persistent SRS transmission, or configured via RRC for periodic SRS
transmission;

\- the serving cell, from which SRS carrier based switching is performed
and whose UL transmission may therefore be interrupted, is indicated by
srs-SwitchFromServCellIndex and srs-SwitchFromCarrier in TS38.331 \[2\];

\- the SRS switching is not colliding with any other transmission with
higher priority defined in TS 38.214 \[26\].

\- the SRS switching is not colliding with any SSB/CSI-RS based L3
measurements and the measurements for RLM/BFD in MCG.- for UE, which
does not support simultaneous reception and transmission for inter-band
TDD CA specified in TS 38.331 \[2\], and is compliant to the
requirements for inter-band CA with uplink in one NR band and without
simultaneous Rx/Tx specified in TS 38.101 \[5\], the SRS transmission
are not simultaneously scheduled with DL SSB/CSI-RS for L3 or L1
measurements transmission on other carriers.

The UE shall not perform SRS carrier based switching if the above
conditions cannot be met.

When SRS carrier based switching is performed between carriers, the UE
is allowed interruptions on any active serving cell in MCG if UE is not
capable of Per-FR gap, or on active serving cell(s) in MCG in FR1 if UE
is capable of Per-FR gap, during the switching to the carrier of a
serving cell in FR1 not configured for PUCCH/PUSCH transmission,

\- with up to X1 slot as specified in Table 8.2.3.2.11-1.

When SRS carrier based switching is performed between carriers, the UE
is allowed interruptions on any active serving cell in MCG if UE is not
capable of Per-FR gap, or on active serving cell(s) in MCG in FR2 if UE
is capable of Per-FR gap, during the switching to the carrier of a
serving cell in FR2 not configured for PUCCH/PUSCH transmission,

\- with up to X2 slot as specified in Table 8.2.3.2.11-2.

When SRS carrier based switching is performed between carriers, the UE
is allowed interruptions on any active serving cell in MCG if UE is not
capable of Per-FR gap, or on active serving cell(s) in MCG in FR1 if UE
is capable of Per-FR gap, during the switching from the carrier of a
serving cell in FR1 not configured for PUCCH/PUSCH transmission,

\- with up to X1 slot as specified in Table 8.2.3.2.11-1.

When SRS carrier based switching is performed between carriers, the UE
is allowed interruptions on any active serving cell in MCG if UE is not
capable of Per-FR gap, or on active serving cell(s) in MCG in FR2 if UE
is capable of Per-FR gap, during the switching from the carrier of a
serving cell in FR2 not configured for PUCCH/PUSCH transmission,

\- with up to X2 slot as specified in Table 8.2.3.2.11-2.

Table 8.2.3.2.11-1: Interruption length X1 (slot)

                                                                                                                     NR Slot length        SRS carrier                    Interruption length X1 (slots)                
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------- ------------------------------ --------------------------------------------- ----
  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.15555555555555556in" height="0.175in"}                                              (ms) of victim cell   switching time (us)^Note\ 1^   Sub carrier spacing for agressor cell (kHz)   
                                                                                                                                                                          15                                            30
  0                                                                                                                  1                     ≤ 200                          2                                             2
                                                                                                                                           300, 500                       2                                             2
                                                                                                                                           900                            3                                             3
  1                                                                                                                  0.5                   ≤ 200                          3                                             2
                                                                                                                                           300, 500                       3                                             3
                                                                                                                                           900                            4                                             4
  2                                                                                                                  0.25                  ≤ 200                          4                                             3
                                                                                                                                           300, 500                       5                                             4
                                                                                                                                           900                            7                                             6
  3                                                                                                                  0.125                 ≤ 200                          7                                             5
                                                                                                                                           300, 500                       9                                             7
                                                                                                                                           900                            12                                            10
  Note1: NR SRS carrier switching time is UE capability indicated by higher layer parameter *SRS-SwitchingTimeNR*.                                                                                                      

Table 8.2.3.2.11-2: Interruption length X2 (slot)

                                                                                                                     NR Slot                      SRS carrier                     Interruption length X2 (slots)                
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------- ------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----
  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.15555555555555556in" height="0.175in"}                                              length (ms) of victim cell   switching time (us) ^Note\ 1^   Sub carrier spacing for agressor cell (kHz)   
                                                                                                                                                                                  60                                            120
  0                                                                                                                  1                            ≤ 200                           2                                             2
  1                                                                                                                  0.5                          ≤ 200                           2                                             2
  2                                                                                                                  0.25                         ≤ 200                           3                                             3
  3                                                                                                                  0.125                        ≤ 200                           4                                             4
  Note1: NR SRS carrier switching time is UE capability indicated by higher layer parameter *SRS-SwitchingTimeNR*.                                                                                                              

For intra-band SRS carrier switching in FR1 or FR2, interruptions in
Table 8.2.3.2.11-1 and in Table 8.2.3.2.11-2 based on SRS carrier
switching time ≤ 200us shall apply. For inter-band SRS carrier switching
in FR1, interruptions in Table 8.2.3.2.11-1 and in Table 8.2.3.2.11-2
shall apply.

##### 8.2.3.2.12 Interruptions at E-UTRA SRS carrier based switching

A PUSCH-less carrier of E-UTRA SCell is a TDD carrier without
PUCCH/PUSCH configured. When a UE needs to transmit periodic or
aperiodic SRS \[23\] and/or non-contention based PRACH on a PUSCH-less
E-UTRA carrier of SCell, the UE can perform carrier based switching to
one or more PUSCH-less carrier of E-UTRA SCells from a E-UTRA carrier
with PUSCH or from another PUSCH-less E-UTRA carrier of SCell prior to
transmitting SRS and/or PRACH, provided that:

\- switching is from a configured E-UTRA carrier to another activated
TDD carrier;

\- the PUSCH-less carrier of E-UTRA SCells to which SRS carrier based
switching is performed is indicated by DCI SRS request field for
aperiodic SRS transmission or configured via RRC \[15\] for periodic SRS
transmission;

\- the E-UTRA serving cell, from which SRS carrier based switching is
performed and whose UL transmission may therefore be interrupted, is
indicated by srs-SwitchFromServCellIndex \[15\];

\- the SRS switching is not colliding with any other transmission with
higher priority defined in TS36.213 \[TBD\];

\- the SRS switching is not colliding with PDCCH in subframe 0 and 5 as
specified in TS36.213 \[TBD\];

\- for UE, which does not support simultaneous reception and
transmission for inter-band TDD CA specified in TS 36.331 \[2\], and is
compliant to the requirements for inter-band CA with uplink in one
E-UTRA band and without simultaneous Rx/Tx specified in TS 36.101
\[25\], the SRS or RACH transmission are not simultaneously scheduled
with DL subframe \#0 or DL subframe \#5 on other E-UTRA carriers.

The UE shall not perform SRS carrier based switching if the above
conditions cannot be met.

When SRS carrier based switching is performed between E-UTRA carriers,
the UE is allowed interruptions on any active serving cell in MCG if UE
is not capable of Per-FR gap, or on active serving cell(s) in MCG in FR1
if UE is capable of Per-FR gap, during the switching to the PUSCH-less
carrier of a serving cell,

\- with up to X2 slot as specified in Table 8.2.3.2.12-1.

When SRS carrier based switching is performed between E-UTRA carriers,
the UE is allowed interruptions on any active serving cell in MCG if UE
is not capable of Per-FR gap, or on active serving cell(s) in MCG in FR1
if UE is capable of Per-FR gap, during the switching from the PUSCH-less
carrier of a serving cell,

\- with up to X2 slot as specified in Table 8.2.3.2.12-1

Table 8.2.3.2.12-1: Interruption length X2 (slot)

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.16875in" height="0.16875in"}   NR Slot       Interruption length X2
  ------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ------------------------
                                                                length (ms)   (slots)
  0                                                             1             2
  1                                                             0.5           3
  2                                                             0.25          5
  3                                                             0.125         9

##### 8.2.3.2.13 Interruptions due to SCell dormancy

##### 8.2.3.2.13.1 Interruptions due to SCell dormancy switch {#interruptions-due-to-scell-dormancy-switch-2 .H6}

When one SCell in MCG is switched from dormancy to non-dormancy or from
non-dormancy to dormancy \[7\] when UE is in DRX active time,

\- the UE is allowed an interruption on active serving cell in MCG as
defined in clause 8.2.3.2.7, except that the interruption is allowed
regardless of which parameters change between the dormant BWP and the
non-dormant BWP

\- The starting time of interruption shall be within the dormancy
switching delay as defined in clause 8.6.2.

When multiple SCells in MCG are switched from dormancy to non-dormancy
or vice versa when the UE is in DRX active time, the interruption
requirement described above applies for each BWP switch.

##### 8.2.3.2.13.2 Interruptions due to CQI measurements during SCell dormancy {#interruptions-due-to-cqi-measurements-during-scell-dormancy-2 .H6}

When one or more SCells are in dormancy, the UE is for the purpose of
CQI measurements on the dormant SCell(s) allowed to cause interruptions
to non-dormant serving cell(s).

The rate of ACK/NACK feedback loss on any non-dormant serving cell
resulting from CQI measurements on dormant SCells shall not exceed 0.5%.

##### 8.2.3.2.13.3 Interruptions due to RRM measurements during SCell dormancy {#interruptions-due-to-rrm-measurements-during-scell-dormancy-2 .H6}

When one or more SCells are in dormancy, the UE is for the purpose of
RRM measurements on the dormant SCell(s) allowed to cause interruptions
to non-dormant serving cell(s).

The rate of ACK/NACK feedback loss on any non-dormant serving cell
resulting from RRM measurements on dormant SCells shall not exceed 1.0%.

##### 8.2.3.2.14 Interruptions when identifying CGI of an NR cell with autonomous gaps

When a UE is identifying CGI of an NR cell with autonomous gaps, the UE
is allowed interruptions on PCell or any activated SCell:

\- with up to K1 interruptions with interrupted slots up to interruption
length X1 specified in Table 8.2.3.2.14-1 for each interruption during
MIB decoding time period T~MIB~ (ms) specified in clause 9.11.

\- with up to L1 interruptions with interrupted slots up to interruption
length Y1 specified in Table 8.2.3.2.14-1 for each interruption during
SIB1 decoding time period T~SIB1~ (ms) specified in clause 9.11 for SSB
and CORESET for RMSI scheduling multiplexing patterns 1.

\- with up to L2 interruptions with interrupted slots up to interruption
length Y2 specified in Table 8.2.3.2.14-1 for each interruption during
SIB1 decoding time period T~SIB1~ (ms) specified in clause 9.11 for SSB
and CORESET for RMSI scheduling multiplexing patterns 2 and 3.

Where:

\- K1 = 6 for the target cell carrier frequency on FR1 and K1 = 25 for
the target cell carrier frequency on FR2, and

\- L1 = T~SIB1~/20, and

\- L2 = T~SIB1~/T~SMTC~, where T~SMTC~ is the periodicity of the SMTC
occasion configured for the target cell carrier .

Table 8.2.3.2.14-1: Interruption length X1, Y1 and Y2 during
measurements with autonomous gaps

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.16111111111111112in" height="0.17777777777777778in"}   NR Slot length (ms) of victim cell   Interruption length X1 (slots)   Interruption length Y1 (slots)   Interruption length Y2 (slots)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ -------------------------------- -------------------------------- --------------------------------
  0                                                                                     1                                    6                                7                                6
  1                                                                                     0.5                                  12                               13                               10
  2                                                                                     0.25                                 24                               25                               19
  3                                                                                     0.125                                48                               49                               37

##### 8.2.3.2.15 Interruptions when identifying CGI of an E-UTRA cell with autonomous gaps

When a UE is identifying CGI of an E-UTRA FDD cell or E-UTRA TDD cell
with autonomous gaps, within time period

\- T~identify\_CGI,\ intra~ specified in clause 8.1.2.2.3, or clause
8.1.2.2.4 in TS 36.133 \[15\], or

\- T~identify\_CGI,\ inter~ specified in clause 8.1.2.3.5, or clause
8.1.2.3.6, or clause 8.1.2.3.7, or clause 8.1.2.3.6 in TS 36.133 \[15\],
or

\- T~identify\_CGI,\ E-UTRA~ specified in clause 9.4.7.1

the UE shall be able to transmit at least the number of ACK/NACKs
specified in Table 8.2.3.2.15-1 on PCell or any activated SCell in the
frequency range where autonomous gaps are used, provided that:

\- there is continuous DL data allocation,

\- no DRX cycle is used,

\- no measurement gaps are configured,

\- only one code word is transmitted in each slot,

\- 2 slot ACK/NACK feedback is configured,

\- 20 ms SMTC period is configured.

Table 8.2.3.2.15-1: Minimum number of ACK/NACKs transmitted by the UE

+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| Minimum number of          | Configuration of the       |         |
| transmitted ACK/NACKs      | serving cell in which the  |         |
|                            | transmitted ACK/NACKs are  |         |
|                            | counted                    |         |
+============================+============================+=========+
|                            | Duplex mode configuration  | SCS     |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 84                         | FDD                        | 15 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 193                        | FDD                        | 30 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 402                        | FDD                        | 60 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 28                         | TDD ^Note\ 1^              | 15 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 81                         | TDD ^Note\ 1^              | 30 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 159                        | TDD ^Note\ 1^              | 60 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 233                        | TDD ^Note\ 2^              | 60 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 491                        | TDD ^Note\ 2^              | 120 kHz |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| NOTE 1: TDD UL-DL          |                            |         |
| configuration is as        |                            |         |
| specified in Table         |                            |         |
| A.3.3.1-1 of TS 38.101-1   |                            |         |
| \[18\].                    |                            |         |
|                            |                            |         |
| NOTE 2: TDD UL-DL          |                            |         |
| configuration is as        |                            |         |
| specified in Table         |                            |         |
| A.3.3.1-1 of TS 38.101-2   |                            |         |
| \[19\].                    |                            |         |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+

##### 8.2.3.2.16 Interruptions due to UE-specific CBW change

The requirements in clause 8.2.1.2.11 apply for this clause.

### 8.2.4 NR-DC: Interruptions

#### 8.2.4.1 Introduction

This clause contains the requirements related to the interruptions on
PCell, PSCell and activated SCell if configured, when

up to 1 SCell in FR1 and up to 7 SCell(s) in FR2 are configured,
deconfigured, activated or deactivated or,

a supplementary UL carrier or an UL carrier is configured or
de-configured, or

measurements on SCC with deactivated SCell in NR SCG, or

UL/DL BWP is switched on PCell, PSCell or SCell,

UE-specific CBW is changed on PCell, PSCell or SCell, or

transitions between active and non-active during DRX, or

transitions from non-DRX to DRX, or

CGI reading of an NR neighbour cell with autonomous gaps, or

CGI reading of an E-UTRA neighbour cell with autonomous gaps.

NR SRS carrier based switching.

Note: interruptions at SCell addition/release, activation/deactivation
and during measurements on SCC may not be required by all UEs.

The interruptions shall not interrupt RRC signalling or ACK/NACKs
related to RRC reconfiguration procedure \[2\] for SCell
addition/release or MAC control signalling \[17\] for SCell
activation/deactivation command.

The requirements shall apply for NR-DC with an NR PCell, PSCell or
SCell.

For a UE which does not support per-FR measurement gap, interruptions to
the PCell and activated SCell may be caused by SCells on any frequency
range. For a UE which supports per-FR gaps, interruptions to PCell,
PSCell and activated SCell may be caused by SCells on the same frequency
range as the victim cell.

#### 8.2.4.2 Requirements

##### 8.2.4.2.1 Interruptions at PSCell/SCell addition/release

When PSCell or one or more SCells is added or released using the same
*RRCConnectionReconfiguration* message as defined in TS 38.331 \[2\],
the UE is allowed an interruption on any activated serving cell during
the RRC reconfiguration procedure as follows:

\- an interruption on any active serving cell:

\- of up to the duration shown in table 8.2.4.2.1-1, if the active
serving cell is not in the same band as the PSCell or SCell being added
or released, where the requriements for Sync apply for synchronous
NR-DC, and for asynchronous NR-DC if the active serving cell is in the
same CG as the PSCell or SCell being added or released, and the
requriements for Async apply for asynchronous NR-DC if the active
serving cell is not in the same CG as the PSCell or SCell being added or
released, or

\- of up to the duration shown in table 8.2.4.2.1-2, if the active
serving cells are in the same band as the SCell being added or released,
provided the cell specific reference signals from the active serving
cells and the SCell being added or released are available in the same
slot.

Table 8.2.4.2.1-1: Interruption duration for PSCell/SCell
addition/release for inter-band DC/CA

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.15555555555555556in" height="0.175in"}   NR Slot length (ms)   Interruption length (slots)                              
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- ------------------------------------------------ ------- ---
                                                                          of victim cell        Sync                                             Async   
  0                                                                       1                     1                                                2       
  1                                                                       0.5                   2                                                3       
  2                                                                       0.25                  Both aggressor cell and victim cell are on FR2   4       5
                                                                                                Either aggressor cell or victim cell is on FR1   5       
  3                                                                       0.125                 Aggressor cell is on FR2                         8       9
                                                                                                Aggressor cell is on FR1                         9       

T **Table 8.2.4.2.1-2: Interruption duration for SCell addition/release
for intra-band DC/CA**

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| ![](media/           | **NR Slot length     | **Interruption       |
| image6.wmf){width="0 | (ms)**               | length (slots)**     |
| .1597222222222222in" |                      |                      |
| height="0.1          |                      |                      |
| 7569444444444443in"} |                      |                      |
+======================+======================+======================+
| 0                    | 1                    | 1 +                  |
|                      |                      | T~SMTC\_duration~ \* |
|                      |                      | $N_{\text{slot}}^{\  |
|                      |                      | text{subframe},\mu}$ |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 1                    | 0.5                  | 2 +                  |
|                      |                      | T~SMTC\_duration~ \* |
|                      |                      | $N_{\text{slot}}^{\  |
|                      |                      | text{subframe},\mu}$ |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 2                    | 0.25                 | 4 +                  |
|                      |                      | T~SMTC\_duration~ \* |
|                      |                      | $N_{\text{slot}}^{\  |
|                      |                      | text{subframe},\mu}$ |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 3                    | 0.125                | 8 +                  |
|                      |                      | T~SMTC\_duration~ \* |
|                      |                      | $N_{\text{slot}}^{\  |
|                      |                      | text{subframe},\mu}$ |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| NOTE 1:              |                      |                      |
| T~SMTC\_duration~    |                      |                      |
| measured in          |                      |                      |
| subframes is         |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| \- the longest SMTC  |                      |                      |
| duration among all   |                      |                      |
| above activeserving  |                      |                      |
| cells and the SCell  |                      |                      |
| being added when one |                      |                      |
| SCell is added. If   |                      |                      |
| SSB configuration    |                      |                      |
| (*ab                 |                      |                      |
| soluteFrequencySSB*) |                      |                      |
| but no SMTC          |                      |                      |
| configuration is     |                      |                      |
| provided for the     |                      |                      |
| SCell being added,   |                      |                      |
| the SSB transmission |                      |                      |
| periodicity is       |                      |                      |
| assumed to be 5ms    |                      |                      |
| and                  |                      |                      |
| T~SMTC\ duration~    |                      |                      |
| for the SCell being  |                      |                      |
| added is x ms, where |                      |                      |
| x = the number of    |                      |                      |
| consecutive          |                      |                      |
| subframes containing |                      |                      |
| all SSBs in one SSB  |                      |                      |
| burst transmitted by |                      |                      |
| the SCell being      |                      |                      |
| added. If no SSB     |                      |                      |
| configuration        |                      |                      |
| (*ab                 |                      |                      |
| soluteFrequencySSB*) |                      |                      |
| nor SMTC             |                      |                      |
| configuration is     |                      |                      |
| provided for the     |                      |                      |
| SCell being added,   |                      |                      |
| T~SMTC\ duration~    |                      |                      |
| for the SCell being  |                      |                      |
| added is 0ms;        |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| \- the longest SMTC  |                      |                      |
| duration among all   |                      |                      |
| active serving cells |                      |                      |
| in the same band     |                      |                      |
| when one SCell is    |                      |                      |
| released.            |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| NOTE 2:              |                      |                      |
| $N_{\text{slot}}^{\  |                      |                      |
| text{subframe},\mu}$ |                      |                      |
| is as defined in TS  |                      |                      |
| 38.211 \[6\].        |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

8.2.4.2.2 Interruptions at SCell activation/deactivation

When a SCell is activated or deactivated as defined in TS 37.340 \[17\],
the UE is allowed

\- an interruption on any active serving cell:

\- of up to the duration shown in table 8.2.4.2.2-1, if the active
serving cell is not in the same band as the SCell being activated or
deactivated, where the requriements for Sync apply for synchronous
NR-DC, and for asynchronous NR-DC if the active serving cell is in the
same CG as the SCell being activated, and the requriements for Async
apply for asynchronous NR-DC if the active serving cell is not in the
same CG as the SCell being activated, or

\- of up to the duration shown in table 8.2.4.2.2-2, if the active
serving cells are in the same band as the SCell being activated or
deactivated provided the cell specific reference signals from the active
serving cells and the SCell being activated or deactivated are available
in the same slot.

Table 8.2.4.2.2-1: Interruption duration for SCell
activation/deactivation for inter-band DC/CA

                                                                NR Slot length        Interruption length (slots)                              
  ------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- ------------------------------------------------ ------- ---
  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.16875in" height="0.16875in"}   (ms) of victim cell   Sync                                             Async   
  0                                                             1                     1                                                2       
  1                                                             0.5                   1                                                2       
  2                                                             0.25                  Both aggressor cell and victim cell are on FR2   2       3
                                                                                      Either aggressor cell or victim cell is on FR1   3       
  3                                                             0.125                 Aggressor cell is on FR2                         4       5
                                                                                      Aggressor cell is on FR1                         5       

**Table 8.2.4.2.2-2: Interruption duration for SCell
activation/deactivation for intra-band DC/CA**

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| ![](media/           | **NR Slot length     | **Interruption       |
| image6.wmf){width="0 | (ms)**               | length (slots)**     |
| .1597222222222222in" |                      |                      |
| height="0.1          |                      |                      |
| 7569444444444443in"} |                      |                      |
+======================+======================+======================+
| 0                    | 1                    | 1 +                  |
|                      |                      | T~SMTC\_duration~ \* |
|                      |                      | $N_{\text{slot}}^{\  |
|                      |                      | text{subframe},\mu}$ |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 1                    | 0.5                  | 1 +                  |
|                      |                      | T~SMTC\_duration~ \* |
|                      |                      | $N_{\text{slot}}^{\  |
|                      |                      | text{subframe},\mu}$ |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 2                    | 0.25                 | 2 +                  |
|                      |                      | T~SMTC\_duration~ \* |
|                      |                      | $N_{\text{slot}}^{\  |
|                      |                      | text{subframe},\mu}$ |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 3                    | 0.125                | 4 +                  |
|                      |                      | T~SMTC\_duration~ \* |
|                      |                      | $N_{\text{slot}}^{\  |
|                      |                      | text{subframe},\mu}$ |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| NOTE 1:              |                      |                      |
| T~SMTC\_duration~    |                      |                      |
| measured in          |                      |                      |
| subframes is         |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| \- the longest SMTC  |                      |                      |
| duration among all   |                      |                      |
| above active serving |                      |                      |
| cells and the SCell  |                      |                      |
| being activated when |                      |                      |
| one SCell is         |                      |                      |
| activated. If SSB    |                      |                      |
| configuration        |                      |                      |
| (*ab                 |                      |                      |
| soluteFrequencySSB*) |                      |                      |
| but no SMTC          |                      |                      |
| configuration is     |                      |                      |
| provided for the     |                      |                      |
| SCell being          |                      |                      |
| activated, the SSB   |                      |                      |
| transmission         |                      |                      |
| periodicity is       |                      |                      |
| assumed to be 5ms    |                      |                      |
| and                  |                      |                      |
| T~SMTC\ duration~    |                      |                      |
| for the SCell being  |                      |                      |
| activated is x ms,   |                      |                      |
| where x = the number |                      |                      |
| of consecutive       |                      |                      |
| subframes containing |                      |                      |
| all SSBs in one SSB  |                      |                      |
| burst transmitted by |                      |                      |
| the SCell being      |                      |                      |
| activated. If no SSB |                      |                      |
| configuration        |                      |                      |
| (*ab                 |                      |                      |
| soluteFrequencySSB*) |                      |                      |
| nor SMTC             |                      |                      |
| configuration is     |                      |                      |
| provided for the     |                      |                      |
| SCell being          |                      |                      |
| activated,           |                      |                      |
| T~SMTC\ duration~    |                      |                      |
| for the SCell being  |                      |                      |
| activated is 0ms;    |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| \- the longest SMTC  |                      |                      |
| duration among all   |                      |                      |
| active serving cells |                      |                      |
| in the same band     |                      |                      |
| when one SCell is    |                      |                      |
| deactivated.         |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| NOTE 2:              |                      |                      |
| $N_{\text{slot}}^{\  |                      |                      |
| text{subframe},\mu}$ |                      |                      |
| is as defined in TS  |                      |                      |
| 38.211 \[6\].        |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

##### 8.2.4.2.3 Interruptions during measurements on SCC

Interruption on PCell, PSCell and other activated SCell(s) during
measurement on the deactivated NR SCC shall meet requirements in clause
8.2.2.2.3, where the term PCell in clause 8.2.2.2.3 shall be deemed to
be replaced with SpCell.

##### 8.2.4.2.4 Interruptions at UL carrier RRC reconfiguration

The requirements in this clause shall apply when a supplementary UL
carrier or an UL carrier is configured or de-configured in NR-DC as
defined in TS 38.331 \[2\].

When an UL carrier or supplementary UL carrier is configured or
de-configured, an interruption of up to the duration shown in table
8.2.4.2.4-1, is allowed during the RRC reconfiguration procedure in
TS38.331 \[2\] on all the other activated serving cells within the same
FR as the reconfigured uplink carrier. The interruption is for both
uplink and downlink of all the other serving cells within the same FR as
the configured or de-configured UL.

Table 8.2.4.2.4-1: Interruption duration for UL carrier RRC
reconfiguration

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.15555555555555556in" height="0.175in"}   NR Slot length (ms)   Interruption length (slots)
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- -----------------------------
  0                                                                       1                     1
  1                                                                       0.5                   2
  2                                                                       0.25                  4
  3                                                                       0.125                 8

##### 8.2.4.2.5 Interruptions due to Active BWP switching Requirement

The requirements for DCI-based BWP switch, timer-based BWP switch or UL
BWP switch triggered by consistent uplink CCA failures in this clause
apply to the case that the BWP switch is performed on a single CC or
multiple CCs.

When either of the DCI-based, timer-based or RRC-based downlink BWP
switch and/or uplink BWP switch occur on multiple CCs simultaneously or
over partially overlapping period, the interruption requirements
described in this clause apply for each BWP switch.

When UE receives a DCI indicating the UE to switch its active BWP, or
when a BWP timer bwp-InactivityTimer defined in TS 38.331 \[2\] expires,
or when the UE receives an RRC command indicating the UE to switch its
active BWP or when UL BWP switch is triggered by consistent uplink CCA
failures, the UE is allowed to cause an interruption on any other
serving cells as defined in clause 8.2.2.2.5. In addition to what is
defined in 8.2.2.5, when RRC-based BWP switch occurs on multiple CCs
over partially overlapping period, the interruption is only allowed
within the delay T~RRCprocessingDelay~ + T~Waiting~ +
T~BWPswitchDelayRRC~ + D~RRC~\*(M-1) as defined in clause 8.6.3A.3.

Besides, in asynchronous scenario the UE is allowed an additional
interrupt of 1 slot length.

##### 8.2.4.2.6 Interruptions at transitions between active and non-active during DRX

When PCell is in non-DRX and PSCell is in DRX, interruptions on PCell
and the activated SCell in MCG if configured due to transitions from
active to non-active and from non-active to active during PSCell DRX are
allowed with up to 1% probability of missed ACK/NACK when the configured
PSCell DRX cycle is less than 640 ms, and 0.625% probability of missed
ACK/NACK is allowed when the configured PSCell DRX cycle is 640 ms or
longer. Each interruption shall not exceed X slot as defined in table
8.2.4.2.6-1.

When PSCell is in non-DRX and PCell is in DRX, interruptions on PSCell
on the activated SCell in SCG if configured due to transitions from
active to non-active and from non-active to active during PCell DRX are
allowed with up to 1 % probability of missed ACK/NACK when the
configured PCell DRX cycle is less than 640 ms, and 0.625% probability
of missed ACK/NACK is allowed when the configured PCell DRX cycle is 640
ms or longer. Each interruption shall not exceed X slot as defined in
table 8.2.4.2.6-1.

Table 8.2.4.2.6-1: Interruption length X at transition between active
and non-active during DRX

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.16875in" height="0.16875in"}   NR Slot length (ms)   Interruption length X (slots)   
  ------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- ------------------------------- -------
                                                                                      Sync                            Async
  0                                                             1                     1                               2
  1                                                             0.5                   1                               2
  2                                                             0.25                  3                               
  3                                                             0.125                 5                               

When both PCell and PSCell are in DRX, no interruption is allowed.

##### 8.2.4.2.7 Interruptions at transitions from non-DRX to DRX

Interruption on PCell and the activated SCell in MCG if configured due
to PSCell transitions from non-DRX to DRX when PCell is in non-DRX shall
not exceed X slots as defined in table 8.2.4.2.6-1.

Interruption on PSCell and the activated SCell in SCG if configured due
to PCell transitions from non-DRX to DRX when PSCell is in non-DRX shall
not exceed X slots as defined in table 8.2.4.2.6-1.

##### 8.2.4.2.8 Interruptions at SCell activation/deactivation with multiple downlink SCells

The requirements in this clause shall apply for the UE configured with
NR-DC and up to 1 downlink SCell in FR1 and up to 7 downlink SCell(s) in
FR2.

When multiple SCell are activated or deactivated by one single MAC CE
command in MCG or SCG:

\- an interruption on any serving cell in MCG or SCG is specified as in
clause 8.2.4.2.2.

When multiple SCell are activated or deactivated in both MCG and SCG by
two MAC CE commands respectively:

\- an interruption on any serving cell in MCG is specified as in clause
8.2.4.2.2, and

\- an interruption on any serving cell in SCG is specified as in clause
8.2.4.2.2.

##### 8.2.4.2.9 Interruptions at NR SRS carrier based switching

SRS transmission can be configured on a carrier not configured for
PUCCH/PUSCH transmission. When a UE needs to transmit periodic,
semi-persistent or aperiodic SRS on a carrier of a serving cell not
configured for PUCCH/PUSCH transmission, the UE can perform carrier
based switching to one or more carriers not configured for PUCCH/PUSCH
transmission from a carrier with PUCCH/PUSCH transmission or from a
carrier not configured for PUCCH/PUSCH transmission prior to
transmitting SRS, provided that:

\- switching is from a configured carrier to another activated carrier;

\- the carrier of SCells not configured for PUCCH/PUSCH transmission to
which SRS carrier based switching is performed is indicated by DCI SRS
request field for aperiodic SRS transmission, or indicated by MAC-CE for
semi-persistent SRS transmission, or configured via RRC for periodic SRS
transmission;

\- the serving cell, from which SRS carrier based switching is performed
and whose UL transmission may therefore be interrupted, is indicated by
srs-SwitchFromServCellIndex and srs-SwitchFromCarrier in TS38.331 \[2\];

\- the SRS switching is not colliding with any other transmission with
higher priority defined in TS 38.214 \[26\].

\- the SRS switching is not colliding with any SSB/CSI-RS based L3
measurements and the measurements for RLM/BFD in the same CG.- for UE,
which does not support simultaneous reception and transmission for
inter-band TDD CA specified in TS 38.331 \[2\], and is compliant to the
requirements for inter-band CA with uplink in one NR band and without
simultaneous Rx/Tx specified in TS 38.101 \[5\], the SRS transmission
are not simultaneously scheduled with DL SSB/CSI-RS for L3 or L1
measurements transmission on other carriers.

The UE shall not perform SRS carrier based switching if the above
conditions cannot be met.

When SRS carrier based switching is performed between carriers, the UE
is allowed interruptions on any active serving cell if UE is not capable
of Per-FR gap, or on active serving cell(s) in FR1 if UE is capable of
Per-FR gap, during the switching to the carrier of a serving cell in FR1
not configured for PUCCH/PUSCH transmission,

\- with up to X1 slot as specified in Table 8.2.4.2.9-1.

When SRS carrier based switching is performed between carriers, the UE
is allowed interruptions on any active serving cell if UE is not capable
of Per-FR gap, or on active serving cell(s) in FR2 if UE is capable of
Per-FR gap, during the switching to the carrier of a serving cell in FR2
not configured for PUCCH/PUSCH transmission,

> \- with up to X2 slot as specified in Table 8.2.4.2.9-2.

When SRS carrier based switching is performed between carriers, the UE
is allowed interruptions on any active serving cell if UE is not capable
of Per-FR gap, or on active serving cell(s) in FR1 if UE is capable of
Per-FR gap, during the switching from the carrier of a serving cell in
FR1 not configured for PUCCH/PUSCH transmission,

\- with up to X1 slot as specified in Table 8.2.4.2.9-1.

When SRS carrier based switching is performed between carriers, the UE
is allowed interruptions on any active serving cell if UE is not capable
of Per-FR gap, or on active serving cell(s) in FR2 if UE is capable of
Per-FR gap, during the switching from the carrier of a serving cell in
FR2 not configured for PUCCH/PUSCH transmission,

\- with up to X2 slot as specified in Table 8.2.4.2.9-2.

Table 8.2.4.2.9-1: Interruption length X1 (slot)

                                                                                                                     NR Slot length        SRS carrier                    Interruption length X1 (slots)                
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------- ------------------------------ --------------------------------------------- ----
  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.15555555555555556in" height="0.175in"}                                              (ms) of victim cell   switching time (us)^Note\ 1^   Sub carrier spacing for agressor cell (kHz)   
                                                                                                                                                                          15                                            30
  0                                                                                                                  1                     ≤ 200                          2                                             2
                                                                                                                                           300, 500                       2                                             2
                                                                                                                                           900                            3                                             3
  1                                                                                                                  0.5                   ≤ 200                          3                                             2
                                                                                                                                           300, 500                       3                                             3
                                                                                                                                           900                            4                                             4
  2                                                                                                                  0.25                  ≤ 200                          4                                             3
                                                                                                                                           300, 500                       5                                             4
                                                                                                                                           900                            7                                             6
  3                                                                                                                  0.125                 ≤ 200                          7                                             5
                                                                                                                                           300, 500                       9                                             7
                                                                                                                                           900                            12                                            10
  Note1: NR SRS carrier switching time is UE capability indicated by higher layer parameter *SRS-SwitchingTimeNR*.                                                                                                      

Table 8.2.4.2.9-2: Interruption length X2 (slot)

                                                                                                                     NR Slot                      SRS carrie                      Interruption length X2 (slots)                
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------- ------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----
  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.15555555555555556in" height="0.175in"}                                              length (ms) of victim cell   switching time (us) ^Note\ 1^   Sub carrier spacing for agressor cell (kHz)   
                                                                                                                                                                                  60                                            120
  0                                                                                                                  1                            ≤ 200                           2                                             2
  1                                                                                                                  0.5                          ≤ 200                           2                                             2
  2                                                                                                                  0.25                         ≤ 200                           3                                             3
  3                                                                                                                  0.125                        ≤ 200                           4                                             4
  Note1: NR SRS carrier switching time is UE capability indicated by higher layer parameter *SRS-SwitchingTimeNR*.                                                                                                              

For intra-band SRS carrier switching in FR1or FR2, interruptions in
Table 8.2.2.2.9-1 and in Table 8.2.2.2.9-2 based on SRS carrier
switching time ≤ 200us shall apply. For inter-band SRS carrier switching
in FR1, interruptions in Table 8.2.2.2.9-1 and in Table 8.2.2.2.9-2
shall apply.

##### 8.2.4.2.10 Interruptions at direct SCell activation

When one or multiple SCell(s) are directly activated at SCell addition:

\- the UE is allowed an interruption on any active serving cell:

\- of up to the duration shown in Table 8.2.4.2.1-1, if the active
serving cell is not in the same band as the SCell being directly
activated, where the requriements for Sync apply for synchronous NR-DC,
and for asynchronous NR-DC if the active serving cell is in the same CG
as the SCell being directly activated, and the requriements for Async
apply for asynchronous NR-DC if the active serving cell is not in the
same CG as the SCell being directly activated, or

\- of up to the duration shown in Table 8.2.4.2.1-2, if the active
serving cells are in the same band as the SCell being directly activated
provided the cell specific reference signals from the active serving
cells and the SCell being directly activated are available in the same
slot.

##### 8.2.4.2.11 Interruptions when identifying CGI of an NR cell with autonomous gaps

When a UE is identifying CGI of an NR cell with autonomous gaps, the UE
is allowed interruptions on PCell, PSCell or any activated SCell:

\- with up to K1 interruptions with interrupted slots up to interruption
length X1 specified in Table 8.2.4.2.11-1 for each interruption during
MIB decoding time period T~MIB~ (ms) specified in clause 9.11.

\- with up to L1 interruptions with interrupted slots up to interruption
length Y1 specified in Table 8.2.4.2.11-1 for each interruption during
SIB1 decoding time period T~SIB1~ (ms) specified in clause 9.11 for SSB
and CORESET for RMSI scheduling multiplexing patterns 1.

\- with up to L2 interruptions with interrupted slots up to interruption
length Y2 specified in Table 8.2.4.2.11-1 for each interruption during
SIB1 decoding time period T~SIB1~ (ms) specified in clause 9.11 for SSB
and CORESET for RMSI scheduling multiplexing patterns 2 and 3.

Where:

\- K1 = 6 for the target cell carrier frequency on FR1 and K1 = 25 for
the target cell carrier frequency on FR2, and

\- L1 = T~SIB1~/20, and

\- L2 = T~SIB1~/T~SMTC~, where T~SMTC~ is the periodicity of the SMTC
occasion configured for the target cell carrier .

Table 8.2.4.2.11-1: Interruption length X1, Y1 and Y2 during
measurements with autonomous gaps

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.16111111111111112in" height="0.17777777777777778in"}   NR Slot length (ms) of victim cell   Interruption length X1 (slots)   Interruption length Y1 (slots)   Interruption length Y2 (slots)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ -------------------------------- -------------------------------- --------------------------------
  0                                                                                     1                                    6                                7                                6
  1                                                                                     0.5                                  12                               13                               10
  2                                                                                     0.25                                 24                               25                               19
  3                                                                                     0.125                                48                               49                               37

##### 8.2.4.2.12 Interruptions when identifying CGI of an E-UTRA cell with autonomous gaps

When a UE is identifying CGI of an E-UTRA FDD cell or E-UTRA TDD cell
with autonomous gaps, within time period T~identify\_CGI,\ E-UTRA~
specified in clause 9.4.7.1, the UE shall be able to transmit at least
the number of ACK/NACKs specified in Table 8.2.4.2.12-1 on PCell, PSCell
or any activated SCell in the frequency range where autonomous gaps are
used, provided that:

> \- there is continuous DL data allocation,
>
> \- no DRX cycle is used,
>
> \- no measurement gaps are configured,
>
> \- only one code word is transmitted in each slot,
>
> \- 2 slot ACK/NACK feedback is configured,
>
> \- 20 ms SMTC period is configured.

Table 8.2.4.2.12-1: Minimum number of ACK/NACKs transmitted by the UE
during T~identify\_CGI,\ E-UTRA~

+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| Minimum number of          | Configuration of the       |         |
| transmitted ACK/NACKs      | serving cell in which the  |         |
|                            | transmitted ACK/NACKs are  |         |
|                            | counted                    |         |
+============================+============================+=========+
|                            | Duplex mode configuration  | SCS     |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 84                         | FDD                        | 15 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 193                        | FDD                        | 30 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 402                        | FDD                        | 60 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 28                         | TDD ^Note\ 1^              | 15 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 81                         | TDD ^Note\ 1^              | 30 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 159                        | TDD ^Note\ 1^              | 60 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 233                        | TDD ^Note\ 2^              | 60 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 491                        | TDD ^Note\ 2^              | 120 kHz |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| NOTE 1: TDD UL-DL          |                            |         |
| configuration is as        |                            |         |
| specified in Table         |                            |         |
| A.3.3.1-1 of TS 38.101-1   |                            |         |
| \[18\].                    |                            |         |
|                            |                            |         |
| NOTE 2: TDD UL-DL          |                            |         |
| configuration is as        |                            |         |
| specified in Table         |                            |         |
| A.3.3.1-1 of TS 38.101-2   |                            |         |
| \[19\].                    |                            |         |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+

##### 8.2.4.2.13 Interruptions due to SCell dormancy

##### 8.2.4.2.13.1 Interruptions due to SCell dormancy switch {#interruptions-due-to-scell-dormancy-switch-3 .H6}

When one SCell in MCG or SCG is switched from dormancy to non-dormancy
or from non-dormancy to dormancy \[7\] when UE is in DRX active time,

\- the UE is allowed an interruption on active serving cell in MCG and
SCG as defined in clause 8.2.4.2.5, except that the interruption is
allowed regardless of which parameters change between the dormant BWP
and the non-dormant BWP

\- The starting time of interruption shall be within the dormancy
switching delay as defined in clause 8.6.2.

When multiple SCells in MCG or SCG are switched from dormancy to
non-dormancy or vice versa when the UE is in DRX active time, the
interruption requirement described above applies for each BWP switch.

##### 8.2.4.2.13.2 Interruptions due to CQI measurements during SCell dormancy {#interruptions-due-to-cqi-measurements-during-scell-dormancy-3 .H6}

When one or more SCells are in dormancy, the UE is for the purpose of
CQI measurements on the dormant SCell(s) allowed to cause interruptions
to non-dormant serving cell(s).

The rate of ACK/NACK feedback loss on any non-dormant serving cell
resulting from CQI measurements on dormant SCells shall not exceed 0.5%.

##### 8.2.4.2.13.3 Interruptions due to RRM measurements during SCell dormancy {#interruptions-due-to-rrm-measurements-during-scell-dormancy-3 .H6}

When one or more SCells are in dormancy, the UE is for the purpose of
RRM measurements on the dormant SCell(s) allowed to cause interruptions
to non-dormant serving cell(s).

The rate of ACK/NACK feedback loss on any non-dormant serving cell
resulting from RRM measurements on dormant SCells shall not exceed 1.0%.

##### 8.2.4.2.14 Interruptions due to UE-specific CBW change

The requirements in clause 8.2.1.2.11 apply for this clause.

#### 8.2.4.2A Void

##### 8.2.4.2A.1 Void

##### 8.2.4.2A.2 Void

##### 8.2.4.2A.3 Void

8.3 SCell Activation and Deactivation Delay
-------------------------------------------

### 8.3.1 Introduction

This clause defines requirements for the delay within which the UE shall
be able to activate a deactivated SCell and deactivate an activated
SCell in EN-DC, or in standalone NR carrier aggregation, or in NE-DC, or
in NR-DC.

The requirements shall apply for EN-DC, standalone NR carrier
aggregation, NE-DC, and NR-DC.

### 8.3.2 SCell Activation Delay Requirement for Deactivated SCell

The requirements in this clause shall apply for the UE configured with
one downlink SCell in EN-DC, or in standalone NR carrier aggregation or
in NE-DC or in NR-DC and when one SCell is being activated.

The delay within which the UE shall be able to activate the deactivated
SCell depends upon the specified conditions.

Upon receiving SCell activation command in slot *n*, the UE shall be
capable to transmit valid CSI report and apply actions related to the
activation command for the SCell being activated no later than in slot
$n + \frac{T_{\text{HARQ}} + T_{activation\_ time} + T_{CSI\_ Reporting}}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$
, where:

T~HARQ~ (in ms) is the timing between DL data transmission and
acknowledgement as specified in TS 38.213 \[3\]

T~activation\_time~ is the SCell activation delay in millisecond.

If the SCell is known and belongs to FR1, T~activation\_time~ is:

\- T~FirstSSB~+ 5ms, if the measurement period of the SCell being
activated is equal to or smaller than 2400ms.

\- T~FirstSSB\_MAX~ + T~rs~ + 5ms, if the measurement period of the
SCell being activated is larger than 2400ms.

If the SCell is unknown and belongs to FR1, and if one of the following
conditions is met

\- 'ssb-PositionInBurst' indicates only one SSB is being actually
transmitted, or

\- 'ssb-PositionInBurst' indicates multiple SSBs and TCI indication is
provided in same MAC PDU with SCell activation,

provided that the side condition Ês/Iot ≥ -2dB is fulfilled,
T~activation\_time~ is:

\- T~FirstSSB\_MAX~ + T~SMTC\_MAX~ + T~rs~ + 5ms, if the following
conditions are met,

\- the SCell is contiguous to an active serving cell in the same band,
and

\- its *ssb-PositionInBurst* is same as the one of contiguous FR1 active
serving cell, and

\- its SMTC offset is same as the one of contiguous FR1 active serving
cell, and

\- its RTD with contiguous FR1 active serving cell is smaller than or
equal to 260ns with respect to the to-be-activated SCell's SSB
numerology, and its reception power difference with contiguous FR1
active serving cell is smaller than or equal to *6*dB;

\- T~FirstSSB\_MAX~ + T~SMTC\_MAX~ + 2\*T~rs~ + 5ms, otherwise.

otherwise, provided that the side condition Ês/Iot ≥ -2dB is fulfilled,
T~activation\_time~ is:

\- 6ms + T~FirstSSB\_MAX~ + T~SMTC\_MAX~ + T~rs~ + T~L1-RSRP,measure~ +
T~L1-RSRP,report~ + T~HARQ~ + max(T~uncertainty\_MAC~ + T~FineTiming~ +
2ms, T~uncertainty\_SP~), if semi-persistent CSI-RS is used for CSI
reporting,

\- 3ms + T~FirstSSB\_MAX~ + T~SMTC\_MAX~ + T~rs~ + T~L1-RSRP,measure~ +
T~L1-RSRP,report~ + max(T~HARQ~ + T~uncertainty\_MAC~ + 5ms +
T~FineTiming~, T~uncertainty\_RRC~ + T~RRC\_delay~), if periodic CSI-RS
is used for CSI reporting.

\- However, when the following conditions are fulfilled, no activation
requirement will be applied for this unknown SCell:

\- the SCell is contiguous to an active serving cell in the same band,
and

\- A single SSB is used in the unknown SCell; or multiple SSBs are used
in the SCell and TCI state indication for PDCCH is provided by the same
MAC PDU used for SCell activation; and

\- its *ssb-PositionInBurst* is same as the one of contiguous FR1 active
serving cell, and

\- its SMTC offset is same as the one of contiguous FR1 active serving
cell

\- its RTD with contiguous FR1 active serving cell is larger than 260ns
with respect to the to-be-activated SCell's SSB numerology, or its
reception power difference with contiguous FR1 active serving cell is
larger than *6*dB;

\- If the SCell being activated belongs to FR1 and if there is at least
one active serving cell contiguous to the SCell on that FR1 band, if the
UE is not provided with SSB configuration (*absoluteFrequencySSB*) nor
SMTC configuration for the target SCell, T~activation\_time~ is 3 ms for
UE supporting *scellWithoutSSB*, provided

\- The RTD between the target SCell and the contiguous active serving
cell is within within ±260ns, and

\- The difference of the reception power with the contiguous active
serving cell is \<= 6dB, and

\- The RS(s) of SCell being activated is (are) QCL-TypeA with TRS(s) of
the SCell being activated, and the TRS(s) of the SCell being activated
is (are) further QCL-TypeC with SSB(s) of any active serving cell that
is contiguous to the SCell being activated on that FR1 band.

If the SCell being activated belongs to FR2 and if there is at least one
active serving cell on that FR2 band, then T~activation\_time~ is
T~FirstSSB~+ 5ms provided:

\- The UE is provided with SMTC for the target SCell, and

\- The SSBs in the serving cell(s) and the SSBs in the SCell fulfil the
condition defined in clause 3.6.3, and

\- The parameter *ssb-PositionsInBurst* is same for the serving cell(s)
and the Scell, and

\- SSB is in the same half-frame on the SCell and the contiguous FR2
active serving cel.l

If the SCell being activated belongs to FR2 and if there is at least one
active serving cell on that FR2 band, if the UE supporting
*scellWithoutSSB* is not provided with any SMTC for the target SCell,
T~activation\_time~ is 3 ms, provided

\- the RS (s) of SCell being activated is (are) QCL-TypeD with RS (s) of
one active serving cell on that FR2 band.

If the SCell being activated belongs to FR2 and if there is no active
serving cell on that FR2 band provided that PCell or PSCell is in FR1 or
in FR2:

If the target SCell is known to UE and semi-persistent CSI-RS is used
for CSI reporting, then T~activation\_time~ is:

\- 3ms + max(T~uncertainty\_MAC~ + T~FineTiming~ + 2ms,
T~uncertainty\_SP~), where T~uncertainty\_MAC~=0 and
T~uncertainty\_SP~=0 if UE receives the SCell activation command,
semi-persistent CSI-RS activation command and TCI state activation
command at the same time.

If the target SCell is known to UE and periodic CSI-RS is used for CSI
reporting, then T~activation\_time~ is:

\- max(T~uncertainty\_MAC~ + 5ms + T~FineTiming~, T~uncertainty\_RRC~ +
T~RRC\_delay~-T~HARQ~), where T~uncertainty\_MAC~=0 if UE receives the
SCell activation command and TCI state activation commands at the same
time.

If the PCell/PSCell and the target SCell are configured as FR1-FR2 CA or
if the PCell/PSCell and the target SCell are in a FR2 band pair with
independent beam management, and the target SCell is unknown to UE and
semi-persistent CSI-RS is used for CSI reporting, provided that the side
condition Ês/Iot ≥ -2dB is fulfilled, then T~activation\_time~ is:

\- 6ms + T~FirstSSB\_MAX~ + 15\*T~SMTC\_MAX~ + 8\*T~rs~ +
T~L1-RSRP,\ measure~ + T~L1-RSRP,\ report~ + T~HARQ~ +
max(T~uncertainty\_MAC~ + T~FineTiming~ + 2ms, T~uncertainty\_SP~).

If the PCell/PSCell and the target SCell are configured as FR1-FR2 CA or
if the PCell/PSCell and the target SCell are in a FR2 band pair with
independent beam management, and the target SCell is unknown to UE and
periodic CSI-RS is used for CSI reporting, provided that the side
condition Ês/Iot ≥ -2dB is fulfilled, then T~activation\_time~ is:

\- 3ms + T~FirstSSB\_MAX~ + 15\*T~SMTC\_MAX~ + 8\*T~rs~ +
T~L1-RSRP,\ measure~ + T~L1-RSRP,\ report~ + max {(T~HARQ~ +
T~uncertainty\_MAC~ + 5ms + T~FineTiming~), (T~uncertainty\_RRC~ +
T~RRC\_delay~)}.

where,

T~SMTC\_MAX~:

\- In FR1, in case of intra-band SCell activation, T~SMTC\_MAX~ is the
longer SMTC periodicity between active serving cells and SCell being
activated provided the cell specific reference signals from the active
serving cells and the SCells being activated or released are available
in the same slot; in case of inter-band SCell activation, T~SMTC\_MAX~
is the SMTC periodicity of SCell being activated.

\- In FR2, in case of intra-band SCell activation, T~SMTC\_MAX~ is the
longer SMTC periodicity between active serving cells and SCell being
activated provided that in Rel-15 only support FR2 intra-band CA; in
case of FR2 inter-band SCell activation, T~SMTC\_MAX~ is the SMTC
periodicity of SCell being activated.

\- T~SMTC\_MAX~ is bounded to a minimum value of 10ms.

> T~rs~ is the SMTC periodicity of the SCell being activated if the UE
> has been provided with an SMTC configuration for the SCell in SCell
> addition message, otherwise T~rs~ is the SMTC configured in the
> measObjectNR having the same SSB frequency and subcarrier spacing. If
> the measObjectNRs having the same SSB frequency and subcarrier spacing
> configured by MN and SN have different SMTC, Trs is the periodicity of
> one of the SMTC which is up to UE implementation. If the UE is not
> provided SMTC configuration or measurement object on this frequency,
> the requirement which involves T~rs~ is applied with T~rs~ = 5ms
> assuming the SSB transmission periodicity is 5ms. There are no
> requirements if the SSB transmission periodicity is not 5ms.
>
> T~FirstSSB~: is the time to the end of the first complete SSB burst
> indicated by the SMTC, or within 5ms if SMTC is not configured, after
> slot n + $\frac{T_{\text{HARQ}} + 3ms}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$.

T~FirstSSB\_MAX~: Is the time to the end of the first complete SSB burst
indicated by the SMTC, or within 5ms if SMTC is not configured, after
slot n + $\frac{T_{\text{HARQ}} + 3ms}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$,
further fulfilling:

\- In FR1, in case of intra-band SCell activation, the occasion when all
active serving cells and SCells being activated or released are
transmitting SSB bursts in the same slot; in case of inter-band SCell
activation, the first occasion when the SCell being activated is
transmitting SSB burst.

\- In FR2, the occasion when all active serving cells and SCells being
activated or released are transmitting SSB bursts in the same slot.

T~FineTiming~ is the time period between UE finish processing the last
activation command for PDCCH TCI, PDSCH TCI (when applicable) and the
timing of first complete available SSB corresponding to the TCI state.

T~L1-RSRP,\ measure~ is L1-RSRP measurement delay
T~L1-RSRP\_Measurement\_Period\_SSB~ ms **or**
T~L1-RSRP\_Measurement\_Period\_CSI-RS~ based on applicability as
defined in clause 9.5 assuming M=1 and T~Report~=0.

T~L1-RSRP,\ report~ is delay of acquiring CSI reporting resources.

T~uncertainty\_MAC~ is the time period between reception of the last
activation command for PDCCH TCI, PDSCH TCI (when applicable) relative
to

\- SCell activation command for known case;

\- First valid L1-RSRP reporting for unknown case.

T~uncertainty\_RRC~ is the time period between reception of the RRC
configuration message for TCI of periodic CSI-RS for CQI reporting (when
applicable) relative to

\- SCell activation command for known case;

\- First valid L1-RSRP reporting for unknown case.

T~uncertainty\_SP~ is the time period between reception of the
activation command for semi-persistent CSI-RS resource set for CQI
reporting relative to

\- SCell activation command for known case;

\- First valid L1-RSRP reporting for unknown case.

T~RRC\_delay~ is the RRC procedure delay as specified in TS38.331 \[2\].

Longer delays for RRM measurement requirements, and in case of FR2 also
SSB based RLM/BFD/CBD/L1-RSRP measurement requirements, can be expected
during the cell detection time for unknown SCell activation.

When *absoluteFrequencySSB* is not configured in *DownlinkConfigCommon*
for target SCell but SMTC for target SCell is configured, no requirement
would be applied.

T~CSI\_reporting~ is the delay (in ms) including uncertainty in
acquiring the first available downlink CSI reference resource, UE
processing time for CSI reporting and uncertainty in acquiring the first
available CSI reporting resources as specified in TS 38.331 \[2\].

SCell in FR1 is known if it has been meeting the following conditions:

\- During the period equal to max(5\*measCycleSCell,  5\*DRX cycles) for
FR1 before the reception of the SCell activation command:

\- the UE has sent a valid measurement report for the SCell being
activated and

\- the SSB measured remains detectable according to the cell
identification conditions specified in clause 9.2 and 9.3.

\- the SSB measured during the period equal to max(5\*measCycleSCell,
5\*DRX cycles) also remains detectable during the SCell activation delay
according to the cell identification conditions specified in clause 9.2
and 9.3.

Otherwise SCell in FR1 is unknown.

For the first SCell activation in FR2 bands, the SCell is known if it
has been meeting the following conditions:

\- During the period equal to 4s for UE supporting power class1 and 3s
for UE supporting power class 2/3/4 before UE receives the last
activation command for PDCCH TCI, PDSCH TCI (when applicable) and
semi-persistent CSI-RS for CQI reporting (when applicable):

\- the UE has sent a valid L3-RSRP measurement report with SSB index,
and

\- SCell activation command is received after L3-RSRP reporting and no
later than the time when UE receives MAC-CE command for TCI activation

\- During the period from L3-RSRP reporting to the valid CQI reporting,
the reported SSBs with indexes remain detectable according to the cell
identification conditions specified in clauses 9.2 and 9.3, and the TCI
state is selected based on one of the latest reported SSB indexes.

Otherwise, the first SCell in FR2 band is unknown. The requirement for
unknown SCell applies provided that the activation commands for PDCCH
TCI, PDSCH TCI (when applicable), semi-persistent CSI-RS for CQI
reporting (when applicable), and configuration message for TCI of
periodic CSI-RS for CQI reporting (when applicable) are based on the
latest valid L1-RSRP reporting.

If the UE has been provided with higher layer in TS 38.331 \[2\]
signaling of *smtc2* prior to the activation command, T~SMTC\_Scell~
follows *smtc1* or *smtc2* according to the physical cell ID of the
target cell being activated. T~SMTC\_MAX~ follows *smtc1* or *smtc2*
according to the physical cell IDs of the target cells being activated
and the active serving cells.

In addition to CSI reporting defined above, UE shall also apply other
actions related to the activation command specified in TS 38.331 \[2\]
for a SCell at the first opportunities for the corresponding actions
once the SCell is activated.

The starting point of an interruption window on spCell or any activated
SCell, as specified in clause 8.2, shall not occur before slot
n+1+$\frac{T_{\text{HARQ}}}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$ and not occur
after slot slot
n+1+$\frac{T_{\text{HARQ}} + 3ms + T_{X}}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$,
where NR slot length is with respect to the numerology used in the SCell
being activated, and T~X~ is:

\- 0, if T~activation\_time~ is 3ms

\- T~FirstSSB~, for any scenario where T~activation\_time~ includes
T~FirstSSB~;

\- T~FirstSSB\_MAX~, for any scenario where T~activation\_time~ includes
T~FirstSSB\_MAX~;

\- T~uncertainty\_MAC~ +T~FineTiming~, for any scenario where
T~activation\_time~ includes only T~FineTiming~ and no T~FirstSSB\_MAX~.

The length of the interruption window may be different for different
victim cells, and depends on the applicable scenario and on the
frequency band relation between the aggressor cell and the victim cell.

The requirements in this clause and requriements on interruption due to
SCell activation in clause 8.2 apply provided that the SSB of the
to-be-activated SCell is within the first active DL BWP of the SCell.

Starting from slot *n* + T~HARQ~ + 3 ms where slot *n* is the slot where
SCell activation command is received (as specified in clause 4.3 of TS
38.213 \[3\]) and until the SCell activation completion at UE, after at
least one CSI-RS transmission occasion for the channel measurement and
reporting (specified in clause 5.2.2.5 of TS 38.214 \[26\]), the UE
shall report out of range if the UE has available uplink resources to
report CQI for the SCell.

Starting from the slot specified in clause 4.3 of TS 38.213 \[3\]
(timing for secondary Cell activation/deactivation) and until the UE has
completed a first L1-RSRP measurement, the UE shall report lowest valid
L1 SS-RSRP range if the UE has available uplink resources to report
L1-RSRP for the SCell.

### 8.3.3 SCell Deactivation Delay Requirement for Activated SCell

The requirements in this clause shall apply for the UE configured with
one downlink SCell in EN-DC, or in standalone NR carrier aggregation, or
in NE-DC, or in NR-DC.

Upon receiving SCell deactivation command in slot *n*, the UE shall
accomplish the deactivation actions for the SCell being deactivated no
later than in slot *n
+*$\ \frac{T_{\text{HARQ}} + 3ms}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$. The
starting point of an interruption window on spCell or any activated
SCell, as specified in clause 8.2, shall not occur before slot
n+1+$\frac{T_{\text{HARQ}}}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$ and not occur
after slot n+1+$\frac{T_{\text{HARQ}} + 3ms}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$,
where NR slot length is with respect to the numerology used in the SCell
being deactivated.

Upon expiry of the *sCellDeactivationTimer* in slot *n*, the UE shall
accomplish the deactivation actions for the SCell being deactivated no
later than in slot *n +*$\ \frac{3ms}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$. The
starting point of an interruption window on spCell or any activated
SCell, as specified in clause 8.2, shall not occur before slot n+1 and
not occur after slot n+1+$\ \frac{3ms}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$, where
NR slot length is with respect to the numerology used in the SCell being
deactivated.

The length of the interruption window may be different for different
victim cells, and depends on the applicable scenario and on the
frequency band relation between the aggressor cell and the victim cell.

### 8.3.4 Direct SCell Activation at SCell addition

The requirements in this clause apply for UE being configured in the RRC
reconfiguration message, TS 38.331 \[2\], with one SCell for which the
parameter *sCellState* is set to *activated*. If the RRC reconfiguration
message for direct SCell activation also configures PSCell addition or
PSCell change, the direct SCell activation delay may be longer than the
requirements defined in this clause.

The UE shall configure the SCell in activated state upon successful
completion of the RRC reconfiguration procedure within the specified
delay. The UE shall be capable to transmit valid CSI report and apply
actions for the directly activated SCell no later than in slot
$n + \frac{N_{\text{direct}}}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$ ,

where:

\- Slot n is the last slot overlapping with the PDSCH containing the RRC
reconfiguration message,

\- N~direct~ = T~RRC\_Process~ + T~1~ + T~activation\_time~ +
T~CSI\_Reporting~ - *3ms for the cases specified in clause 8.3.2 that
TCI state is not indicated within T~activation\_time~; otherwise,
N~direct~ = T~RRC\_Process~ + T~1~ + T~HARQ~ + T~activation\_time~ +
T~CSI\_Reporting~*

\- *T~RRC\_Process~*: RRC procedure delay as specified in clause 11.2 of
TS 36.331 \[16\] if the corresponding RRC message is embedded in E-UTRA
RRC message, otherwise it is the RRC procedure delay defined in clause
12 of TS 38.331 \[2\],

\- *T~1~*: Delay from slot
$n + \frac{T_{RRC\_ Process}}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$ until the
transmission of *RRCReconfigurationComplete* message,

Note: *T~1~* is UE implementation dependent.

\- *T~HARQ~* (in ms) is the timing between DL data transmission and
acknowledgement as specified in TS 38.213 \[3\],

\- *If the SCell is known and belongs to FR1, T~CSI\_Reporting~* is
specified in clause 8.3.2 and *T~activation\_time~ is defined as:*

\- T~FirstSSB~+ 5ms, if the measurement period of the SCell being
activated is equal to or smaller than 2400ms.

> \- T~FirstSSB\_MAX~ + T~rs~ + 5ms, if measurement period of the SCell
> being activated is larger than 2400ms.
>
> where,
>
> the measurement period in Table 9.2.5.2-1 applies if the target SCell
> was in an intra-frequency layer corresponding to an activated SCell;
>
> the measurement period in Table 9.2.5.2-3 applies if the target SCell
> was in an intra-frequency layer corresponding to a deactivated SCell;
>
> the measurement period in Table 9.3.5-1 applies if the target SCell
> was in an inter-frequency layer.

*- Otherwise, T~activation\_time~* and *T~CSI\_Reporting~* are specified
in clause 8.3.2, where the following definitions of T~FirstSSB~ and
T~FirstSSB\_MAX~ shall override the existing ones:

\- *T~FirstSSB~*: the time to the end of the first complete SSB burst
indicated by the SMTC after slot *n +*
$\frac{T_{\text{RRC}\_\text{Process}} + T_{1}}{\text{NR}\ \text{slot}\ \text{length}}$

\- *T~FirstSSB\_MAX~*: the time to the end of the first complete SSB
burst indicated by the SMTC after slot *n +*
$\frac{T_{\text{RR}C_{\text{Process}}} + T_{1}}{\text{NR}\ \text{slot}\ \text{length}}$

\- In FR1, in case of intra-band SCell activation, the occasion when all
active serving cells and SCells being activated or released are
transmitting SSB bursts in the same slot; in case of inter-band SCell
activation, the first occasion when the SCell being activated is
transmitting SSB burst.

\- In FR2, the occasion when all active serving cells and SCells being
activated or released are transmitting SSB bursts in the same slot.

In addition to CSI reporting defined above, UE shall also apply other
actions related to the activation command specified in TS38.321 \[7\]
for an SCell at the first opportunities for the corresponding actions
once the SCell is activated.

The SCell in FR1 is known provided the following conditions are met for
the SCell:

> \- During the last 5 seconds before the reception of the direct SCell
> configuration command:
>
> \- the UE has sent a valid measurement report for the SCell being
> directly activated, and
>
> \- the SSB measured remains detectable according to the cell
> identification conditions specified in sections 9.2 and 9.3,
>
> \- the SSB measured during the period equal to \[5\] seconds also
> remains detectable during the SCell activation delay according to the
> cell identification conditions specified in clause 9.2 and 9.3.

Otherwise, the SCell is unknown.

The SCell in FR2 is known provided it meets the corresponding conditions
as defined in clause 8.3.2. Otherwise, the SCell is unknown.

The UE may be allowed to cause interruptions to serving cells on other
component carriers during an interruption window, as specified in clause
8.2. The starting point of an interruption window on spCell or any
activated SCell shall not occur before slot *n*+1, and shall not occur
after slot
*n+*1+$\frac{T_{RRC\_ Process} + T_{1} + T_{X}}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$,
where NR slot length is with respect to the numerology of the SCell
being activated, and *T~X~* is:

\- *T~FirstSSB~*, for any scenario where *T~activation\_time~* includes
*T~FirstSSB~*;

\- *T~FirstSSB\_MAX~*, for any scenario where *T~activation\_time~*
includes *T~FirstSSB\_MAX~*;

\- *T~uncertainty\_MAC~ +T~FineTiming~*, for any scenario where
*T~activation\_time~* includes *T~FineTiming~*.

The length of the interruption window may be different for different
victim cells, and depends on the applicable scenario and on the
frequency band relation between the aggressor cell and the victim cell.

Starting from the slot
$n + \frac{T_{RRC\_ Process\ }{+ \ T}_{1}}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$
until the UE has completed the direct SCell activation, the UE shall
report CQI index = 0 (out of range) if the UE has available uplink
resources to report CQI for the SCell.

### 8.3.5 Direct SCell Activation at Handover

The requirements in this clause apply for UE being configured in the RRC
reconfiguration message, TS 38.331 \[2\], for handover with one SCell
for which the parameter *sCellState* is set to *activated*.

The UE shall configure the SCell in activated state upon successful
completion of the RRC reconfiguration procedure within the specified
delay. The UE shall be capable to transmit valid CSI report and apply
actions for the directly activated SCell no later than in slot
$n + \frac{N_{\text{direct}}}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$ ,

Where:

\- Slot n is the last slot overlapping with the PDSCH containing RRC
reconfiguration message.

\- N~direct~ = T~RRC\_process~ + T~interrupt~ + T~2~ + T~3~ +
T~activation\_time~ + T~CSI\_Reporting~ *- 3ms for the cases specified
in clause 8.3.2 that TCI state is not indicated within*
T~activation\_time~*; otherwise,* N~direct~ = T~RRC\_process~ +
T~interrupt~ + T~2~ + T~3~ + T~HARQ~ +T~activation\_time~ +
T~CSI\_Reporting~

\- T~RRC\_Process~: RRC procedure delay as specified in clause 11.2 of
TS 36.331 \[16\] if the corresponding RRC message is embedded in E-UTRA
RRC message, otherwise it is the RRC procedure delay defined in clause
12 of TS 38.331 \[2\],

\- T~interrupt~: Interruption time during handover as specified in
clause 6.1.1,

\- T~2~: Delay from slot
$n + \frac{T_{\text{RRC}\_\text{Process}} + T_{\text{interrupt}}}{\text{NR}\ \text{slot}\ \text{length}}$
until UE has obtained a valid TA command for the target PCell,

\- T~3~: Delay for applying the received TA for uplink transmission in
the target PCell, and greater than or equal to k+1 slot, where k is
defined in clause 4.2 in TS 38.213,

\- *T~HARQ~* (in ms) is the timing between DL data transmission and
acknowledgement as specified in TS 38.213 \[3\],

\- If the SCell is configured as deactivated SCell before handover,
*T~CSI\_Reporting~* is specified in clause 8.3.2 and
*T~activation\_time~* is defined as:

\- T~FirstSSB~+ 5ms, if the measurement period of the SCell being
activated is equal to or smaller than \[2400ms\].

\- T~FirstSSB\_MAX~ + T~rs~ + 5ms, if the measurement period of the
SCell being activated is larger than \[2400ms\].

\- *If the SCell is not configured as deactivated SCell but known and
belongs to FR1, T~CSI\_Reporting~* is specified in clause 8.3.2 and
*T~activation\_time~ is defined as:*

\- T~FirstSSB~+ 5ms, if the measurement period of the SCell being
activated is equal to or smaller than \[2400ms\].

\- T~FirstSSB\_MAX~ + T~rs~ + 5ms, if measurement period of the SCell
being activated is larger than \[2400ms\].

> where,
>
> the measurement period in Table 9.2.5.2-1 applies if the target SCell
> was in an intra-frequency layer corresponding to an activated SCell;
>
> the measurement period in Table 9.2.5.2-3 applies if the target SCell
> was in an intra-frequency layer corresponding to a deactivated SCell;
>
> the measurement period in Table 9.3.5-1 applies if the target SCell
> was in an inter-frequency layer.
>
> \- *Otherwise, T~activation\_time~* and *T~CSI\_Reporting~* are
> specified in clause 8.3.2, where the following definitions of
> *T~FirstSSB~* and\
> *T~FirstSSB\_MAX~* shall override the existing ones:

\- *T~FirstSSB~*: the time to the end of the first complete SSB burst
indicated by the SMTC after slot *n +*
$\frac{T_{\text{RRC}\_\text{Process}} + T_{\text{interrupt}} + T_{2} + T_{3}}{\text{NR}\ \text{slot}\ \text{length}}$

\- *T~FirstSSB\_MAX~*: the time to the end of the first complete SSB
burst indicated by the SMTC after slot *n +*
$\frac{T_{\text{RR}C_{\text{Process}}} + T_{\text{interrupt}} + T_{2} + T_{3}}{\text{NR}\ \text{slot}\ \text{length}}$

\- In FR1, in case of intra-band SCell activation, the occasion when all
active serving cells and SCells being activated or released are
transmitting SSB bursts in the same slot; in case of inter-band SCell
activation, the first occasion when the SCell being activated is
transmitting SSB burst.

\- In FR2, the occasion when all active serving cells and SCells being
activated or released are transmitting SSB bursts in the same slot.

In addition to CSI reporting defined above, UE shall also apply other
actions related to the activation command specified in TS 38.321 \[7\]
for an SCell at the first opportunities for the corresponding actions
once the SCell is activated.

The SCell in FR1 is known provided the following conditions are met for
the SCell:

> \- During the last 5 seconds before the reception of the direct SCell
> configuration command:
>
> \- the UE has sent a valid measurement report for the SCell being
> directly activated, and
>
> \- the SSB measured remains detectable according to the cell
> identification conditions specified in sections 9.2 and 9.3,
>
> \- the SSB measured during the period equal to \[5\] seconds also
> remains detectable during the SCell activation delay according to the
> cell identification conditions specified in clause 9.2 and 9.3.

Otherwise, the SCell is unknown.

The SCell in FR2 is known provided it meets the corresponding conditions
as defined in clause 8.3.2. Otherwise, the SCell is unknown.

The UE may be allowed to cause interruptions to PCell during an
interruption window, as specified in clause 8.2. The starting point of
an interruption window on PCell shall not occur before slot
*n*+1+$\ \frac{T_{\text{RRC\ Processing}} + T_{\text{interrupt}} + T_{2} + T_{3}}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$,
and not occur after slot
*n*+1+$\frac{T_{\text{RRC\ Processing}} + T_{\text{interrupt}} + T_{2} + T_{3} + T_{X}}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$,
where NR slot length is with respect to the numerology of the SCell
being activated, and *T~X~* is:

\- *T~FirstSSB~*, for any scenario where *T~activation\_time~* includes
*T~FirstSSB~*;

\- *T~FirstSSB\_MAX~*, for any scenario where *T~activation\_time~*
includes *T~FirstSSB\_MAX~*;

\- *T~uncertainty\_MAC~ +T~FineTiming~*, for any scenario where
*T~activation\_time~* includes *T~FineTiming~*.

The length of the interruption window depends on the frequency band
relation between the aggressor SCell and the victim PCell.

Starting from the slot
$n + \frac{T_{RRC\_ Process\ }{+ \ T}_{\text{interrupt}} + T_{2}{+ \ T}_{3}}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$
and until the UE has completed the direct SCell activation, the UE shall
report CQI index = 0 (out of range) if the UE has available uplink
resources to report CQI for the SCell.

8.3.6 Direct SCell Activation at RRCResume

The requirements in this clause apply for UE being configured in the RRC
reconfiguration message in TS38.331 \[2\] for RRC Resume with one SCell
for which the parameter *sCellState* is set to *activated*.

The requirements in clause 8.3.4 shall apply, except that the definition
of *T~1~* shall be deemed to be replaced with

> *T~1~*: Delay from slot
> $n + \frac{T_{RRC\_ Process}}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$ until the
> transmission of RRCResumeComplete message,

### 8.3.7 SCell Activation Delay Requirement for Deactivated SCell with Multiple Downlink SCells

The requirements in this clause shall apply for the UE configured with
more than one SCells.

In EN-DC, NE-DC, standalone NR, or in one CG of NR-DC, the requirements
in this clause shall apply when the following conditions are met:

\- UE only receives one single MAC command for multiple SCell activation
within the activation period defined in this clause

\- in each single CG, there are no other SCell activation, deactivation,
addition or release before activation is completed for all the SCells
activated by the single MAC CE in this clause, and

\- in EN-DC and NE-DC, there are no E-UTRAN SCell activation,
deactivation, addition or release before multiple SCell activation is
completed in this clause, and

\- any to-be-activated unknown SCell has active serving cell(s) or known
to-be-activated SCell(s) on the same band

In two CGs of NR-DC, the requirements in this clause shall apply when
the following conditions are met:

\- UE receives one MAC command per CG for multiple SCell activation
within the activation period defined in this clause, and

\- UE supports per-FR measurement gap capability, and

\- any to-be-activated unknown SCell has active serving cell(s) or known
to-be-activated SCell(s) on the same band

The delay within which the UE shall be able to activate the deactivated
SCell with other downlink to-be-activated SCell(s) depends upon the
specified conditions.

Upon receiving SCell activation command in slot *n for* more than one
SCell, for each of the to-be-activated SCell, the UE shall be capable to
transmit valid CSI report and apply actions related to the activation
command for the SCell being activated no later than in slot
$n + \frac{T_{\text{HARQ}} + T_{activation\_ time\_ multiple\_ scells} + T_{CSI\_ Reporting}}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$,
where:

T~HARQ~ (in ms) is the timing between DL data transmission and
acknowledgement as specified in TS 38.213 \[3\]

T~activation\_time\_multiple\_scells~ is the target SCell activation
delay in millisecond in multiple SCell activation scenario.

If the SCell is known and belongs to FR1 and the measurement period of
the SCell being activated is equal to or smaller than \[2400ms\],
T~activation\_time\_multiple\_scells~ is:

\- T~FirstSSB\_MAX\_multiple\_scells~ + T~rs~ + 5ms, if on the same band
UE also has at least one parallel to-be-activated SCell which is FR1
known Scell with the measurement period larger than \[2400ms\] but does
not have any parallel to-be-activated SCell which is FR1 unknown SCell.

\- T~FirstSSB\_MAX\_multiple\_scells~ + T~SMTC\_MAX\_multiple\_scells~ +
T~rs~ + 5ms, if on the same band UE also has at least one parallel
to-be-activated SCell which is FR1 unknown Scell

\- otherwise, T~FirstSSB\_MAX\_multiple\_scells~ + 5ms.

If the SCell is known and belongs to FR1 and the measurement period of
the SCell being activated is larger than \[2400ms\],
T~activation\_time\_multiple\_scells~ is:

\- T~FirstSSB\_MAX\_multiple\_scells~ + T~SMTC\_MAX\_multiple\_scells~ +
T~rs~ + 5ms, if on the same band UE also has at least one parallel
to-be-activated SCell which is FR1 unknown Scell

\- otherwise, T~FirstSSB\_MAX\_multiple\_scells~ + T~rs~ + 5ms

If the SCell is unknown and belongs to FR1, provided that the side
condition Ês/Iot ≥ -2dB is fulfilled,
T~activation\_time\_multiple\_scells~ is:

> \- T~FirstSSB\_MAX\_multiple\_scells~ +
> T~SMTC\_MAX\_multiple\_scells~+T~rs~ +5ms, if the SCell is not counted
> in N~1~

\- The activation delay may be longer if SSB is not in the same
half-frame on the SCell and the contiguous FR1 known cell or contiguous
FR1 active serving cell

otherwise

\- if the following conditions are met

\- 'ssb-PositionInBurst' indicates only one SSB is being actually
transmitted, or

\- 'ssb-PositionInBurst' indicates multiple SSBs and TCI indication is
provided in same MAC PDU with SCell activation,

T~activation\_time\_multiple\_scells~ is:

\- T~FirstSSB\_MAX\_multiple\_scells~ +
T~SMTC\_MAX\_multiple\_scells~+T~rs~\*N~1~ +T~rs~ +5ms,

Otherwise:

T~activation\_time\_multiple\_scells~ is:

\- 6ms + T~FirstSSB\_MAX\_multiple\_scells~ +
T~SMTC\_MAX\_multiple\_scells~ + T~rs~\*N~1~ + T~L1-RSRP,measure~ +
T~L1-RSRP,report~ + T~HARQ~ + max(T~uncertainty\_MAC\_multiple\_scells~
+ T~FineTiming~ + 2ms, T~uncertainty\_SP\_multiple\_scells~), if
semi-persistent CSI-RS is used for CSI reporting,

\- 3ms + T~FirstSSB\_MAX\_multiple\_scells~ +
T~SMTC\_MAX\_multiple\_scells~ + T~rs~\*N~1~ + T~L1-RSRP,measure~ +
T~L1-RSRP,report~ + max(T~HARQ~ + T~uncertainty\_MAC\_multiple\_scells~
+ 5ms + T~FineTiming~, T~uncertainty\_RRC\_multiple\_scells~ +
T~RRC\_delay~), if periodic CSI-RS is used for CSI reporting.

If the SCell being activated belongs to FR1 and if there is at least one
active serving cell contiguous to the SCell on that FR1 band, if the UE
is not provided with SSB configuration (*absoluteFrequencySSB*) nor SMTC
configuration for the target SCell,
T~activation\_time\_multiple\_scells~ is same as single SCell activation
delay requirement as defined in clause 8.3.2.

If the SCell being activated belongs to FR2 and if there is at least one
active serving cell on that FR2 band, then
T~activation\_time\_multiple\_scells~ is same as single SCell activation
delay requirement as defined in clause 8.3.2.

If the SCell being activated belongs to FR2 and if there is at least one
active serving cell on that FR2 band, if the UE is not provided with any
SMTC for the target SCell, T~activation\_time\_multiple\_scells~ is same
as single SCell activation delay requirement as defined in clause 8.3.2

If the SCell being activated belongs to FR2 and if there is no active
serving cell on that FR2 band provided that PCell or PSCell is FR1:

If the target SCell is known to UE and semi-persistent CSI-RS is used
for CSI reporting, then T~activation\_time\_multiple\_scells~ is same as
single SCell activation delay requirement as defined in clause 8.3.2.

If the target SCell is known to UE and periodic CSI-RS is used for CSI
reporting, then T~activation\_time\_multiple\_scells~ is same as single
SCell activation delay requirement as defined in clause 8.3.2.

If the target SCell is unknown to UE and semi-persistent CSI-RS is used
for CSI reporting, provided that the side condition Ês/Iot ≥ -2dB is
fulfilled, then T~activation\_time\_multiple\_scells~ is:

\- 3 ms + max(T~uncertainty\_MAC\_multiple\_scells~ +T~FineTiming~ +
2ms, T~uncertainty\_SP\_multiple\_scells~), if on the same band UE also
has at least one parallel to-be-activated SCell which is FR2 known
Scell. T~uncertainty\_MAC\_multiple\_scells~ =0 and
T~uncertainty\_SP\_multiple\_scells~ =0 if UE receives the SCell
activation command, semi-persistent CSI-RS activation command and TCI
state activation commands at the same time.

If the target SCell is unknown to UE and periodic CSI-RS is used for CSI
reporting, provided that the side condition Ês/Iot ≥ -2dB is fulfilled,
then T~activation\_time\_multiple\_scells~ is:

\- max(T~uncertainty\_MAC\_multiple\_scells~ + 5ms + T~FineTiming~,
T~uncertainty\_RRC\_multiple\_scells~ + T~RRC\_delay~-T~HARQ~), if on
the same band UE also has at least one parallel to-be-activated SCell
which is FR2 known Scell . T~uncertainty\_MAC\_multiple\_scells~ =0 if
UE receives the SCell activation command and TCI state activation
commands at the same time.

The requirements for FR2 unknown SCells apply provided that the
parameter *ssb-PositionsInBurst* is same for the SCell and the known
serving cell on the same FR2 band. The activation delay FR2 unknown
SCell may be longer if SSB is not in the same half-frame on the SCell
and the contiguous FR2 known cell.

Where,

N~1~ is the number counting for parallel FR1 unknown to-be-activated
SCell(s) only except the ones which fulfilled the following conditions:

\- contiguous to an active serving cell in the same band, or to a known
SCell in the same band being activated by the same MAC PDU, and

\- A single SSB is used in the unknown SCell; or multiple SSBs are used
in the unknown SCell and TCI state indication for PDCCH is provided by
the same MAC PDU used for SCell activation; and

\- its *ssb-PositionInBurst* is same as the one of contiguous FR1 known
cell or contiguous FR1 active serving cell, and

\- its RTD with contiguous FR1 known cell or contiguous FR1 active
serving cell is smaller than or equal to 260ns with respect to the
to-be-activated SCell's SSB numerology and its reception power
difference with contiguous FR1 known cell or contiguous FR1 active
serving cell is smaller than or equal to 6dB, and

\- its SMTC offset is same as the one of contiguous FR1 known cell or
contiguous FR1 active serving cell

However, when the following conditions are fulfilled, no activation
requirement will be applied for this unknown SCell and other SCells
being activated and counted in N~1~:

> \- contiguous to an active serving cell in the same band, or to a
> known SCell in the same band being activated by the same MAC PDU, and

\- A single SSB is used in the unknown SCell; or multiple SSBs are used
in the unknown SCell and TCI state indication for PDCCH is provided by
the same MAC PDU used for SCell activation; and

\- its *ssb-PositionInBurst* is same as the one of FR1 known cell or FR1
active serving cell, and

\- its RTD with contiguous FR1 known cell or contiguous FR1 active
serving cell is larger than 260ns with respect to the to-be-activated
SCell's SSB numerology or its reception power difference with contiguous
FR1 known cell or contiguous FR1 active serving cell is larger than 6dB,
and

\- its SMTC offset is same as the one of FR1 known cell or FR1 active
serving cell

T~SMTC\_MAX\_multiple\_scells~:

\- In FR1, in case of intra-band SCell activation,
T~SMTC\_MAX\_multiple\_scells~ is the longest SMTC periodicity between
active serving cells and SCells being activated on the same band
provided the cell specific reference signals from the active serving
cells and the SCells being activated or released are available in the
same slot; in case of inter-band SCell activation,
T~SMTC\_MAX\_multiple\_scells~ is the longest SMTC periodicity of SCells
being activated on the same band.

\- In FR2, T~SMTC\_MAX\_multiple\_scells~ is the longest SMTC
periodicity between active serving cells and SCell(s) being activated in
FR2 intra-band CA.

\- T~SMTC\_MAX\_multiple\_scells~ is bounded to a minimum value of 10ms.

T~FirstSSB\_MAX\_multiple\_scells~: is the time to the end of the first
complete SSB burst indicated by the SMTC after slot n +
$\frac{T_{\text{HARQ}} + 3ms}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$, further
fulfilling:

\- In FR1, in case of intra-band SCell activation, the occasion when all
active serving cells and SCells being activated or released are
transmitting SSB bursts in the same slot; in case of inter-band SCell
activation, the first occasion when the SCells being activated are
transmitting SSB burst.

\- In FR2, the occasion when all active serving cells and SCells being
activated or released are transmitting SSB bursts in the same slot.

T~uncertainty\_MAC\_multiple\_scells~ is the time period between
reception of the activation command for PDCCH TCI, PDSCH TCI (when
applicable) and SCell activation command of this unknown SCell.

T~uncertainty\_SP\_multiple\_scells~ is the time period between
reception of the activation command for semi-persistent CSI-RS resource
set for CQI reporting and SCell activation command of this
unknown SCell.

T~uncertainty\_RRC\_multiple\_scells~ is the time period between
reception of the RRC configuration message for TCI of periodic CSI-RS
for CQI reporting (when applicable) and SCell activation command of this
unknown SCell.

T~rs~, T~FineTiming~, and T~RRC\_delay~ is defined in clause 8.3.2.

Longer delays for RRM measurement requirements, and in case of FR2 also
SSB based RLM/BFD/CBD/L1-RSRP measurement requirements, can be expected
during the cell detection time for unknown SCell activation.

The condition of known SCell in FR1 or FR2 is defined in clause 8.3.2.

If the UE has been provided with higher layer in TS 38.331 \[2\]
signaling of *smtc2* prior to the activation command, T~SMTC\_Scell~
follows *smtc1* or *smtc2* according to the physical cell ID of the
target cell being activated. T~SMTC\_MAX\_multiple\_scell~ follows
*smtc1* or *smtc2* according to the physical cell IDs of the target
cells being activated and the active serving cells.

The starting point and the end-point of an interruption window on PCell
or any activated SCell in MCG for NR standalone mode, or on PSCell or
any activated SCell in SCG for EN-DC mode is same as single SCell
activation requirement in clause 8.3.2.

Upon receiving SCell activation command in slot *n,* if the start of the
first complete SSB used in the *T~X~* in the different bands which have
SCells being activated after
*n*+$\frac{T_{\text{HARQ}} + 3ms}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$ are not
aligned on time domain among

\- SCells in different bands being activated by the same MAC CE if UE
does not support per FR gap, or

\- SCells in different FR1 bands being activated by the same MAC CE if
UE supports per FR gap,

additional interruptions may be expected for the activated serving
cells, where

\- The number of additional interruptions is no more than the number of
FR1 bands which have both SCell being activated for which the activation
requirements involve *T~FirstSSB\_MAX~* *~multiple\_scells~* with
*T~rs~* and the active serving cell, and

\- In each interruption occasion, the interruption length is defined in
clause 8.2.2.2.2, and

\- Longer activation delay may be expected for multiple SCell activation
under one MAC CE with multiple interruptions, and

\- *T~X~* is:

\- *T~FirstSSB~*, for any scenario where *T~activation\_time~*
~*multiple\_scells*~ includes *T~FirstSSB~*;

\- *T~FirstSSB\_MAX~* *~multiple\_scells~*, for any scenario where
*T~activation\_time~* ~*multiple\_scells*~ includes *T~FirstSSB\_MAX~*
*~multiple\_scells~*;

\- *T~uncertainty\_MAC~+T~FineTiming~* or *T~uncertainty\_MAC~*
*~multiple\_scells~+T~FineTiming~*, for any scenario where
*T~activation\_time~* ~*multiple\_scells*~ includes *T~FineTiming~*.

Otherwise, no additional interruption is expected due to activation of
multiple SCells.

Starting from slot *n* + T~HARQ~ + 3 ms where slot *n* is the slot where
SCell activation command is received (as specified in clause 4.3 of TS
38.213 \[3\]) and until the SCell activation completion at UE, after at
least one CSI-RS transmission occasion for the channel measurement and
reporting (specified in clause 5.2.2.5 of TS 38.214 \[26\]), the UE
shall report out of range if the UE has available uplink resources to
report CQI for the SCell.

Starting from the slot specified in clause 4.3 of TS 38.213 \[3\]
(timing for secondary Cell activation/deactivation) and until the UE has
completed a first L1-RSRP measurement, the UE shall report lowest valid
L1 SS-RSRP range if the UE has available uplink resources to report
L1-RSRP for the SCell.

### 8.3.8 SCell Deactivation Delay Requirement for Activated SCell with Multiple Downlink SCells

The requirements in this clause shall apply for the UE configured with
multiple downlink SCells in EN-DC, or in standalone NR carrier
aggregation, or in NE-DC, or in NR-DC, provided that,

\- in each single CG, there are no other SCell activation, deactivation,
addition or release before deactivation is completed for all the SCells
deactivated by the single MAC CE in this clause, and

\- in EN-DC and NE-DC, there are no E-UTRAN SCell activation,
deactivation, addition or release before multiple SCell deactivation is
completed in this clause, and

\- in EN-DC, NE-DC, NR-DC and standalone NR, UE only receives one single
MAC command for multiple SCell deactivation within the deactivation
period defined in this clause, or, in NR-DC, per-FR measurement gap
capable UE receives one MAC command per CG for multiple SCell
deactivation within the deactivation period defined in this clause

Upon receiving SCell deactivation command in slot *n*, the UE shall
accomplish the deactivation actions for the SCell being deactivated
within the same delay as specified in clause 8.3.3.

The starting point and the end-point of an interruption window on PCell
or any activated SCell in MCG for NR standalone mode, or on PSCell or
any activated SCell in SCG for EN-DC mode is same as single SCell
activation requirement in clause 8.3.3.

### 8.3.9 Direct SCell Activation of Multiple Downlink SCells at SCell addition 

The requirements in this clause apply for UE being configured in the RRC
reconfiguration message, TS 38.331 \[2\], with 2 SCells for which the
parameter *sCellState* is set to *activated*.

In EN-DC, NE-DC, stand-alone NR, or in one CG of NR-DC, the requirements
in this clause shall apply when the following conditions are met:

\- UE only receives one RRC reconfiguration message for direct
activation of SCells within the activation period defined in this
clause,

\- in each single CG, there are no other SCell activation, deactivation,
addition or release before direct activation is completed for all the
SCells activated by the single RRC reconfiguration message in this
clause, and

\- in EN-DC and NE-DC, there are no E-UTRAN SCell activation,
deactivation, addition or release before the direct SCell activation of
multiple SCells in this clause is completed.

In two CGs of NR-DC, the requirements in this clause shall apply when
the following conditions are met:

\- UE receives one RRC message per CG for direct activation of SCells
within the activation period defined in this clause,

\- UE supports per-FR measurement gap capability, and

\- any to-be-activated unknown SCell has active serving cell(s) or known
to-be-activated SCell(s) on the same band.

The UE shall configure the SCells in activated state upon successful
completion of the RRC reconfiguration procedure within the specified
delay. The UE shall be capable to transmit valid CSI report and apply
actions for the directly activated SCell no later than in slot
$n + \frac{N_{direct\_ multiple\_ scells}}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$ ,

where:

\- Slot n is the last slot overlapping with the PDSCH containing the RRC
reconfiguration message.

\- N~direct\_multiple\_scells~ = T~RRC\_Process~ + T~1~ +
T~activation\_time\_multiple\_scells~ + T~CSI\_Reporting~ - *3ms for the
cases specified in clause 8.3.7 that TCI state is not indicated within*
T~activation\_time~*; otherwise,* N~direct\_multiple\_scells~ =
T~RRC\_Process~ + T~1~ + T~HARQ~ + T~activation\_time\_multiple\_scells~
+ T~CSI\_Reporting~

*- T~1~* and *T~RRC\_Process~* are specified in clause 8.3.4,

*- T~HARQ~* (in ms) is the timing between DL data transmission and
acknowledgement as specified in TS 38.213 \[3\],

*- T~activation\_time\_multiple\_scells~* and *T~CSI\_Reporting~* are
specified in clause 8.3.7, where the following definition of
*T~FirstSSB~*, *T~FirstSSB\_MAX~*, and
*T~FirstSSB\_MAX\_multiple\_scells~* shall override the existing ones:

*- T~FirstSSB~* and *T~FirstSSB\_MAX~*: as specified in clause 8.3.4,

\- *T~FirstSSB\_MAX\_multiple\_scells~*: the time to the end of the
first complete SSB burst indicated by the SMTC after slot *n +*
$\frac{T_{\text{RR}C_{\text{Process}}} + T_{1}}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$
, further fulfilling:

\- In FR1, in case of intra-band SCell activation, the occasion when all
active serving cells and SCells being activated or released are
transmitting SSB bursts in the same slot; in case of inter-band SCell
activation, the first occasion when the SCells being activated are
transmitting SSB burst.

\- In FR2, the occasion when all active serving cells and SCells being
activated or released are transmitting SSB bursts in the same slot.

In addition to CSI reporting defined above, UE shall also apply other
actions related to the activation command specified in TS38.321 \[7\]
for an SCell at the first opportunities for the corresponding actions
once the SCell is activated.

The UE may be allowed to cause interruptions to serving cells on other
component carriers during an interruption window, as specified in clause
8.2. The starting point of an interruption window on spCell or any
activated SCell shall not occur before slot
*n*+1+$\frac{T_{\text{HARQ}}}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$, and shall not
occur after slot
*n+*1+$\frac{T_{RRC\_ Process} + T_{1} + T_{X}}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$,
where NR slot length is with respect to the numerology of the SCell
being activated, and *T~X~* is:

\- *T~FirstSSB~*, for any scenario where
*T~activation\_time\_multiple\_scells~* includes *T~FirstSSB~*;

\- *T~FirstSSB\_MAX~*, for any scenario where
*T~activation\_time\_multiple\_scells~* includes *T~FirstSSB\_MAX~*;

\- *T~FirstSSB\_MAX\_multiple\_scell~*, for any scenario where
*T~activation\_time\_multiple\_scells~* includes
*T~FirstSSB\_MAX\_multiple\_scells~*;

\- *T~uncertainty\_MAC~ +T~FineTiming~*, for any scenario where
*T~activation\_time\_multiple\_scells~* includes *T~FineTiming~.*

The length of the interruption window may be different for different
victim cells, and depends on the applicable scenario and on the
frequency band relation between the aggressor cell and the victim cell.

Starting from the slot
$n + \frac{T_{RRC\_ Process\ }{+ \ T}_{1}}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$
until the UE has completed the direct SCell activation, the UE shall
report CQI index = 0 (out of range) if the UE has available uplink
resources to report CQI for the SCells.

### 8.3.10 Direct SCell Activation of Multiple Downlink SCells at Handover

The requirements in this clause apply for UE being configured in the RRC
reconfiguration message, TS 38.331 \[2\], for handover with 2 SCells for
which the parameter *sCellState* is set to *activated*.

In MCG of NE-DC, MCG of NR-DC, or in stand-alone NR, the requirements in
this clause shall apply when the following conditions are met:

\- UE does not receive any RRC reconfiguration message for direct
activation of SCells within the activation period defined in this
clause,

\- there is no other SCell activation, deactivation, addition or release
before direct activation is completed for all the SCells activated by
the single RRC reconfiguration message in this clause, and

\- in NE-DC, there is no E-UTRAN SCell activation, deactivation,
addition or release before the direct activation of SCells in this
clause is completed.

The UE shall configure the SCells in activated state upon successful
completion of the RRC reconfiguration procedure within the specified
delay. The UE shall be capable to transmit valid CSI report and apply
actions for the directly activated SCells no later than in slot
$n + \frac{N_{direct\_ multiple\_ scells}}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$
where:

\- Slot n is the last slot overlapping with the PDSCH containing the RRC
reconfiguration message,

\- N~direct\_multiple\_scells~ = T~RRC\_process~ + T~interrupt~ + T~2~ +
T~3~ + T~activation\_time\_multiple\_scells~ + T~CSI\_Reporting~ *- 3ms
for the cases specified in clause 8.3.7 that TCI state is not indicated
within* T~activation\_time~*; otherwise,* N~direct\_multiple\_scells~ =
T~RRC\_process~ + T~interrupt~ + T~2~ + T~3~ + T~HARQ~ +
T~activation\_time\_multiple\_scells~ + T~CSI\_Reporting~

\- *T~RRC\_Process~, T~interrupt~,T~2~*, and *T~3~* are specified in
clause 8.3.5,

\- *T~HARQ~* (in ms) is the timing between DL data transmission and
acknowledgement as specified in TS 38.213 \[3\],

\- *T~activation\_time\_multiple\_scells~* and *T~CSI\_Reporting~* are
specified in clause 8.3.7, where the following definitions of
*T~FirstSSB~*, *T~FirstSSB\_MAX~*, and
*T~FirstSSB\_MAX\_multiple\_scells~* shall override the existing ones:

\- *T~FirstSSB~*, *T~FirstSSB\_MAX~*: as specified in clause 8.3.5,

*- T~FirstSSB\_MAX\_multiple\_scell~*: the time to the end of the first
complete SSB burst indicated by the SMTC after slot *n
+*$\frac{T_{RRC\_ Process} + T_{\text{interrupt}} + T_{2} + T_{3}}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$,
further fulfilling:

\- In FR1, in case of intra-band SCell activation, the occasion when all
active serving cells and SCells being activated or released are
transmitting SSB bursts in the same slot; in case of inter-band SCell
activation, the first occasion when the SCells being activated are
transmitting SSB burst.

\- In FR2, the occasion when all active serving cells and SCells being
activated or released are transmitting SSB bursts in the same slot.

In addition to CSI reporting defined above, UE shall also apply other
actions related to the activation command specified in TS 38.321 \[7\]
for an SCell at the first opportunities for the corresponding actions
once the SCell is activated.

The UE may be allowed to cause interruptions to PCell during an
interruption window, as specified in clause 8.2. The starting point of
an interruption window on PCell shall not occur before slot
*n*+1+$\ \frac{T_{\text{RRC\ Processing}} + T_{\text{interrupt}} + T_{2} + T_{3}}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$,
and not occur after slot
*n*+1+$\frac{T_{\text{RRC\ Processing}} + T_{\text{interrupt}} + T_{2} + T_{3} + T_{X}}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$,
where NR slot length is with respect to the numerology of the SCell
being activated, and *T~X~* is:

\- *T~FirstSSB~*, for any scenario where
*T~activation\_time\_multiple\_scells~* includes *T~FirstSSB~*;

\- *T~FirstSSB\_MAX~*, for any scenario where
T~activation\_time\_multiple\_scells~ includes T~FirstSSB\_MAX~;

\- *T~FirstSSB\_MAX\_multiple\_scell~*, for any scenario where
*T~activation\_time\_multiple\_scells~* includes
*T~FirstSSB\_MAX\_multiple\_scells~*;

\- *T~uncertainty\_MAC~ +T~FineTiming~*, for any scenario where
*T~activation\_time\_multiple\_scells~* includes *T~FineTiming~*.

The length of the interruption window depends on the frequency band
relation between the aggressor SCell and the victim PCell.

Starting from the slot
$n + \frac{T_{RRC\_ Process\ }{+ \ T}_{\text{interrupt}} + T_{2}{+ \ T}_{3}}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$
and until the UE has completed the direct SCell activation, the UE shall
report CQI index = 0 (out of range) if the UE has available uplink
resources to report CQI for the SCells.

8.3.11 Direct SCell Activation of Multiple Downlink SCells at RRC Resume

The requirements in this clause apply for UE being configured in the RRC
reconfiguration message in TS38.331 \[2\] for RRC Resume with 2 SCells
for which the parameter *sCellState* is set to *activated*.

The requirements in clause 8.3.9 shall apply, except that the definition
of *T~1~* shall be replaced by the corresponding definition in clause
8.3.6.

8.3A SCell Activation and Deactivation Delay in Carriers with CCA
-----------------------------------------------------------------

### 8.3A.1 Introduction

This clause defines requirements for the delay within which the UE shall
be able to activate a deactivated SCell operating with CCA and
deactivate an activated SCell operating with CCA in EN-DC or in
standalone NR carrier aggregation.

In the requirements of clause 8.3A, the term SMTC occasion not available
at the UE refers to when the SMTC contains SSBs configured by gNB in a
cell on a carrier frequency subject to CCA, but the first two successive
candidate SSB positions for the same SSB index within the discovery
burst transmission window are not available at the UE due to DL CCA
failures at gNB during the corresponding period; otherwise the SMTC
occasion is considered as available at the UE.

In the requirements of clause 8.3A, the term CSI-RS occasion not
available at the UE due to DL CCA failures referes to when the CSI-RS is
configured by gNB for the UE but not available at the UE due to DL CCA
failures at gNB during the corresponding period.

The requirements shall apply for EN-DC and standalone NR carrier
aggregation.

### 8.3A.2 SCell Activation Delay Requirement for Deactivated SCell

The requirements in this clause shall apply for the UE configured with
one downlink SCell operating with CCA in EN-DC or in standalone NR
carrier aggregation and when one SCell operating with CCA is being
activated but none of the RRC parameters *CO-DurationPerCell-r16*,
*SlotFormatIndicator*, and *CSI-RS-ValidationWith-DCI-r16* is configured
**and all of the CSI reporting resources for being-activated SCell are
available**.

The delay within which the UE shall be able to activate the deactivated
SCell depends upon the specified conditions.

Upon receiving SCell activation command in slot *n*, the UE shall be
capable to transmit valid CSI report and apply actions related to the
activation command for the SCell being activated no later than in slot n
+ (T~HARQ~ + T~activation\_time\_withCCA~ +
T~CSI\_reporting\_withCCA~)/*NR\_slot\_length*, where:

\- T~HARQ~ (in ms) is the timing between DL data transmission and
acknowledgement as specified in TS 38.213 \[3\]. In the event of UE not
being able to transmit the acknowledgment due to UL CCA failures:
T~HARQ~ is extended to also include the time to all next HARQ feedback
transmission and retransmission opportunities, until the time of its
successful transmission, as specified in TS 38.213 \[3\]; no extension
of T~HARQ~ due to UL CCA failures is allowed for Type 2C UL channel
access procedure as defined in TS 37.213 \[57\].

\- T~activation\_time\_withCCA~ is the SCell activation delay in
millisecond.

\- If the SCell is known, T~activation\_time\_withCCA~ is:

\- T~FirstSSB~ + L~1~\*T~rs~ + 5ms, if the measurement period of the
SCell being activated is equal to or smaller than 2400ms.

\- T~FirstSSB\_MAX~ + L~2,1~\*T~SMTC\_MAX~ + (1 +L~2,2~)\*T~rs~ + 5ms,
if the measurement period of the SCell being activated is larger than
2400ms.

\- If the SCell is unknown, provided that the side condition Ês/Iot ≥ -2
dB is fulfilled and the SCell can be successfully detected in one
attempt, T~activation\_time\_withCCA~ is:

\- T~FirstSSB\_MAX~ + (1 + L~3,1~)\*T~SMTC\_MAX~ + (2 + L~3,2~)\*T~rs~ +
5ms.

Where,

T~SMTC\_MAX~:

\- In case of intra-band SCell activation, T~SMTC\_MAX~ is the longest
SMTC periodicity between active serving cells and SCell being activated
provided the cell specific reference signals from the active serving
cells and the SCells being activated or released are available in the
same slot;

\- In case of inter-band SCell activation, T~SMTC\_MAX~ is the SMTC
periodicity of SCell being activated;

\- T~SMTC\_MAX~ is bounded to a minimum value of 10ms.

T~rs~ is the SMTC periodicity of the SCell being activated if the UE has
been provided with an SMTC configuration for the SCell in SCell addition
message, otherwise T~rs~ is the SMTC configured in the measObjectNR
having the same SSB frequency and subcarrier spacing. If the UE is not
provided SMTC configuration or measurement object on this frequency, the
requirement which involves T~rs~ is applied with T~rs~ = 5ms assuming
the SSB transmission periodicity is 5ms. There are no requirements if
the SSB transmission periodicity is not 5ms

T~FirstSSB~: is the time to the end of the first complete configured SSB
burst indicated by the SMTC after slot n +
(T~HARQ~+3ms)/*NR\_slot\_length*

T~FirstSSB\_MAX~: is the time to the end of first complete configured
SSB burst indicated by the SMTC after slot n +
(T~HARQ~+3ms)/*NR\_slot\_length* when all active serving cells and
SCells being activated or released have configured SSB bursts in the
same slot for intra-band scenario. In case of inter-band SCell
activation, T~FirstSSB\_MAX~ is the time to the end of the first
complete configured SSB burst of the SCell being activated.

L~1~ (L~1~ ≤ L~1,max~) is the number of configured SMTC occasions not
available at the UE. L~1,max~ = 2 if T~rs~ ≤ 40 ms; otherwise L~1,max~ =
1.

L~2,1~ (L~2,1~ ≤ L~2,1,max~) and L~3,1~ (L~3,1~ ≤ L~3,1,max~) are the
numbers of configured SMTC occasions not available at the UE, for a
known and unknown SCell activation respectively,

in the SCell being activated, for inter-band scenario, or

in any of the SCells already activated or being activated provided their
cell specific reference signals are configured in the same slot, for
intra-band scenario

and L~2,1,max~ = 2 if T~SMTC\_MAX~ ≤ 40 ms; otherwise L~2,1,max~ = 1.
L~3,1,max~ = 2 if T~SMTC\_MAX~ ≤ 40 ms; otherwise L~3,1,max~ = 1.

L~2,2~ (L~2,2~ ≤ L~2,2,max~) and L~3,2~ (L~3,2~ ≤ L~3,2,max~) are the
number of configured SMTC occasions not available at the UE in the SCell
being activated. L~2,2,max~ = 2 if T~rs~ ≤ 40 ms; otherwise L~2,2,max~ =
1. L~3,2,max~ = 2 if T~rs~ ≤ 40 ms; otherwise L~3,2,max~ = 1.

T~CSI\_reporting\_withCCA~ = T~CSI\_reporting~ +
T~CSI\_ReportingDelay\ ,~ where

T~CSI\_reporting~ is the delay (in ms) including uncertainty in
acquiring the first available downlink CSI reference resource, UE
processing time for CSI reporting and uncertainty in acquiring the first
available CSI reporting resources as specified in TS 38.331 \[2\].

T~CSI\_ReportingDelay~ is the additional delay in transmission of CSI
reporting due to UL CCA failures at the UE. If there are no uplink
resources for reporting the valid CSI, then the UE shall use the next
available opportunities for reporting the corresponding valid CSI as
specified in TS 38.213 \[3\].

Upon exceeding any of the maximum numbers L~1,max~, L~2,1,max~,
L~2,2,max~, L~3,1,max~, and L~3,2,max~ of SMTC occasions or CSI-RS
occasions, respectively, not available at the UE, the UE shall abandon
the SCell activation procedure.

SCell operating with CCA is known if it has been meeting the following
conditions:

\- During the period equal to max(5 measCycleSCell,  5 DRX cycles)
before the reception of the SCell activation command:

\- the UE has sent a valid measurement report for the SCell being
activated and

\- the SSB measured remains detectable in the SMTC occasions available
at the UE, according to the cell identification conditions specified in
clause 9.2A and 9.3A.

\- the SSB measured during the period equal to max(5 measCycleSCell, 5
DRX cycles) also remains detectable - the SSB measured during the period
equal to max(5 measCycleSCell, 5 DRX cycles) also remains detectable in
the SMTC occasions available at the UE during the SCell activation delay
according to the cell identification conditions specified in clause 9.2A
and 9.3A.

Otherwise SCell operating with CCA is unknown.

If the UE has been provided with higher layer in TS 38.331 \[2\]
signaling of *smtc2* prior to the activation command, T~SMTC\_Scell~
follows *smtc1* or *smtc2* according to the physical cell ID of the
target cell being activated. T~SMTC\_MAX~ follows *smtc1* or *smtc2*
according to the physical cell IDs of the target cells being activated
and the active serving cells.

In addition to CSI reporting defined above, UE shall also apply other
actions related to the activation command specified in TS 38.331 \[2\]
for a SCell at the first opportunities for the corresponding actions
once the SCell is activated.

For intra-band CA, the starting point of an interruption window on
SpCell or any activated SCell as specified in clause 8.2, shall not
occur before slot n+1+
$\frac{\mathbf{T}_{\mathbf{\text{HARQ}}}}{\mathbf{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}}$
and not occur after slot
n+1+$\frac{\mathbf{T}_{\mathbf{\text{HARQ}}}\mathbf{+}\mathbf{3 + T}_{\mathbf{X}}}{\mathbf{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}}$
, where T~X~ is:

\- T~FirstSSB~, for known SCell activation when SCell measurement cycle
is equal to or smaller than 160ms;

\- T~FirstSSB\_MAX~ + L~2,1~\* T~SMTC\_MAX~ for known SCell activation
when SCell measurement cycle is greater than 160ms;

\- T~FirstSSB\_MAX~ + L~3,1~\* T~SMTC\_MAX~ for unknown SCell activation

For inter-band CA, the starting point of an interruption window on
SpCell or any activated SCell as specified in clause 8.2, shall not
occur before slot n+1+
$\frac{\mathbf{T}_{\mathbf{\text{HARQ}}}}{\mathbf{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}}$
and not occur after slot
n+1+$\frac{\mathbf{T}_{\mathbf{\text{HARQ}}}\mathbf{+}\mathbf{3 + T}_{\mathbf{X}}}{\mathbf{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}}$
, where T~X~ is:

\- T~FirstSSB~, for known SCell activation when SCell measurement cycle
is equal to, or smaller than, 160ms.

For intra-band CA,

-   While the SCell being activated is known with measurement cycle
    equal to or smaller than 160ms, no more than one interruption is
    allowed during SCell activation.

-   While the SCell being activated is known with measurement cycle
    greater than 160ms, up to 1+L~2,1~ interruptions are allowed during
    SCell activation,

-   While the SCell being activated is unknown, up to 1+L~3,1~
    interruptions are allowed during SCell activation. When L~3,1~\>0,
    performance degradation may be expected on any activated intra-band
    victim cells during the SCell activation

-   For a single interruption (L=0), interruption window length at SCell
    activation does not depend on DL CCA failures.

For inter-band CA,

> \- For any active cell in the same band with the SCell being
> activated, the interruption requirements (i.e. number of interruptions
> and starting point of an interruption) for intra-band CA apply.
>
> \- For any active cell outside the band with the SCell being
> activated, a single interruption applies

The number of interruptions and length of each interruption window may
be different for different victim cells and depends on the applicable
scenario and on the frequency band relation between the aggressor cell
and the victim cell. For a single interruption (L=0), the interruption
window length at SCell activation does not depend on DL CCA failures.

Starting from slot *n* + T~HARQ~ + 3 ms where slot *n* is the slot where
SCell activation command is received (as specified in clause 4.3 of TS
38.213 \[3\]) and until the SCell activation completion at UE, after at
least one CSI-RS transmission occasion for the channel measurement and
reporting (specified in clause 5.2.2.5 of TS 38.214 \[26\]), the UE
shall report out of range if the UE has available uplink resources to
report CQI for the SCell.

Starting from the slot specified in clause 4.3 of TS 38.213 \[3\]
(timing for secondary Cell activation/deactivation) and until the UE has
completed a first L1-RSRP measurement, the UE shall report lowest valid
L1 SS-RSRP range if the UE has available uplink resources to report
L1-RSRP for the SCell.

The requirements in this section do not apply when
*sCellDeactivationTimer* \[2\] is not configured and when
T~activation\_time\_withCCA~ exceeds 1280 ms.

### 8.3A.3 SCell Deactivation Delay Requirement for Activated SCell

The requirements in this clause shall apply for the UE configured with
one downlink SCell operating with CCA in EN-DC or in standalone NR
carrier aggregation.

Upon receiving SCell deactivation command in slot *n*, the UE shall
accomplish the deactivation actions for the SCell being deactivated no
later than in slot *n+*(T~HARQ~ +3ms)/*NR\_slot\_length*. The starting
point of an interruption window on spCell or any activated SCell, as
specified in clause 8.2, shall not occur before slot
n+1+$\frac{T_{\text{HARQ}}}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$ and not occur
after slot n+1+$\frac{T_{\text{HARQ}} + 3ms}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$,
where NR slot length is with respect to the numerology used in the SCell
being deactivated.

Upon expiry of the *sCellDeactivationTimer* in slot *n*, the UE shall
accomplish the deactivation actions for the SCell being deactivated no
later than in slot *n +*$\ \frac{3ms}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$. The
starting point of an interruption window on spCell or any activated
SCell, as specified in clause 8.2, shall not occur before slot n+1 and
not occur after slot n+1+$\ \frac{3ms}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$, where
NR slot length is with respect to the numerology used in the SCell being
deactivated.

The length of the interruption window may be different for different
victim cells, and depends on the applicable scenario and on the
frequency band relation between the aggressor cell and the victim cell.

The requirements in this section do not apply when
*sCellDeactivationTimer* \[2\] is not configured and when SCell
deactivation delay exceeds 1280 ms.

8.4 UE UL carrier RRC reconfiguration delay
-------------------------------------------

### 8.4.1 Introduction

The requirements in this clause apply for a UE being configured or
deconfigured with a supplementary UL carrier or NR UL carrier.

### 8.4.2 UE UL carrier configuration delay requirement

When the UE receives a RRC message implying NR UL or supplementary UL
carrier configuration, the UE shall be ready to start transmission on
the newly configured carrier within T~UL\_carrier\_config~ from the end
of the slot n.

Where

\- Slot n is the last slot overlapping with the PDSCH containing the RRC
command.

\- T~UL\_carrier\_config~ equals the maximum RRC procedure delay defined
in clause 11.2 in TS 36.331 \[16\] if the corresponding RRC message is
embedded in E-UTRA RRC message, otherwise it equals the maximum RRC
procedure delay defined in clause 12 in TS 38.331 \[2\].

### 8.4.3 UE UL carrier deconfiguration delay requirement

When the UE receives a RRC message implying NR UL or supplementary UL
carrier deconfiguration RRC signalling, the UE shall stop UL signalling
on the deconfigured UL carrier within T~UL\_carrier\_deconfig~ from the
end of the slot n.

Where

\- Slot n is the last slot overlapping with the PDSCH containing the RRC
command.

\- T~UL\_carrier\_deconfig~ equals the maximum RRC procedure delay
defined in clause 11.2 in TS 36.331 \[16\] if the corresponding RRC
message is embedded in E-UTRA RRC message, otherwise it equals the
maximum RRC procedure delay defined in clause 12 in TS 38.331 \[2\].

8.5 Link Recovery Procedures
----------------------------

### 8.5.1 Introduction

The UE shall assess the downlink radio link quality of a serving cell
based on the reference signal in the set as specified in TS 38.213 \[3\]
in order to detect beam failure on:

\- PCell in SA, NR-DC, or NE-DC operation mode,

\- PSCell in NR-DC and EN-DC operation mode,

\- SCell in SA, NR-DC, NE-DC or EN-DC operation mode.

The RS resource configurations in the set *on PCell or PSCell* can be
periodic CSI-RS resources and/or SSBs. RS resource configuration in the
set on SCell shall be periodic CSI-RS. UE is not required to perform
beam failure detection outside the active DL BWP. UE is not required to
meet the requirements in clause 8.5.2 and 8.5.3 if UE does not have set
. UE is not required to perform beam failure detection on a deactivated
SCell, and also not required to perform beam failure detection on
resources which is implicitly configured for a deactivated SCell. When
more than 2 periodic CSI-RS resources on a CC are configured in the set
for current SCell or implicitly configured in the set for other SCell,
it is up to UE implementation to select two of CSI-RS resources in
active BWP in current CC to perform beam failure detection. UE is not
required to perform beam failure detection on a SCell on which *is not
configured.*

On each RS resource configuration in the set , the UE shall estimate the
radio link quality and compare it to the threshold Q~out\_LR~ for the
purpose of accessing downlink radio link quality of the serving cell
beams.

The threshold Q~out\_LR~ is defined as the level at which the downlink
radio level link of a given resource configuration on set cannot be
reliably received and shall correspond to the BLER~out~ = 10% block
error rate of a hypothetical PDCCH transmission. For SSB based beam
failure detection, Q~out\_LR\_SSB~ is derived based on the hypothetical
PDCCH transmission parameters listed in Table 8.5.2.1-1. For CSI-RS
based beam failure detection, Q~out\_LR\_CSI-RS~ is derived based on the
hypothetical PDCCH transmission parameters listed in Table 8.5.3.1-1.

Upon request the UE shall deliver configuration indexes from the set *as
specified in TS 38.213 \[3\] , to higher layers,* and the corresponding
L1-RSRP measurement provided that the measured L1-RSRP is equal to or
better than the threshold Q~in\_LR~, which is indicated by higher layer
parameter *rsrp-ThresholdSSB*. The UE applies the Q~in\_LR~ threshold to
the L1-RSRP measurement obtained from an SSB. The UE applies the
Q~in\_LR~ threshold to the L1-RSRP measurement obtained for a CSI-RS
resource after scaling a respective CSI-RS reception power with a value
provided by higher layer parameter *powerControlOffsetSS*. The RS
resource configurations in the set can be periodic CSI-RS resources or
SSBs or both SSB and CSI-RS resources. UE is not required to perform
candidate beam detection outside the active DL BWP. UE is not required
to perform candidate beam detection on a SCell on which *is not
configured.*

### 8.5.2 Requirements for SSB based beam failure detection

#### 8.5.2.1 Introduction

The requirements in this clause apply for each SSB resource in the set
configured for a serving cell, provided that the SSB configured for beam
failure detection is actually transmitted within the UE active DL BWP
during the entire evaluation period specified in clause 8.5.2.2. The
requirements in this clause could not be applicable if UE is required to
perform beam failure detection on more than 1 serving cell per band.

Table 8.5.2.1-1: PDCCH transmission parameters for beam failure instance

  Attribute                                                          Value for BLER
  ------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------------
  DCI format                                                         1-0
  Number of control OFDM symbols                                     2
  Aggregation level (CCE)                                            8
  Ratio of hypothetical PDCCH RE energy to average SSS RE energy     0dB
  Ratio of hypothetical PDCCH DMRS energy to average SSS RE energy   0dB
  Bandwidth (PRBs)                                                   24
  Sub-carrier spacing (kHz)                                          Same as the SCS of RMSI CORESET
  DMRS precoder granularity                                          REG bundle size
  REG bundle size                                                    6
  CP length                                                          Normal
  Mapping from REG to CCE                                            Distributed

#### 8.5.2.2 Minimum requirement

UE shall be able to evaluate whether the downlink radio link quality on
the configured SSB resource in set estimated over the last
T~Evaluate\_BFD\_SSB~ ms period becomes worse than the threshold
Q~out\_LR\_SSB~ within T~Evaluate\_BFD\_SSB~ ms period.

The value of T~Evaluate\_BFD\_SSB~ is defined in Table 8.5.2.2-1 for
FR1.

The value of T~Evaluate\_BFD\_SSB~ is defined in Table 8.5.2.2-2 for FR2
with scaling factor N=8

For FR1,

\- $P = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{\text{MGRP}}}$, when in the
monitored cell there are measurement gaps configured for
intra-frequency, inter-frequency or inter-RAT measurements, which are
overlapping with some but not all occasions of the SSB.

\- P=1 when in the monitored cell there are no measurement gaps
overlapping with any occasion of the SSB.

For FR2,

\- $P = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{T_{\text{SMTCperiod}}}}$,
when BFD-RS resource is not overlapped with measurement gap and the
BFD-RS resource is partially overlapped with SMTC occasion (T~SSB~ \<
T~SMTCperiod~).

\- P = P~sharing\ factor~, when the BFD-RS resource is not overlapped
with measurement gap and the BFD-RS resource is fully overlapped with
SMTC period (T~SSB~ = T~SMTCperiod~).

\-
$P = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{\text{MGRP}}\  - \ \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{T_{\text{SMTCperiod}}}}$,
when the BFD-RS resource is partially overlapped with measurement gap
and the BFD-RS resource is partially overlapped with SMTC occasion
(T~SSB~ \< T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC occasion is not overlapped with
measurement gap and

\- T~SMTCperiod~ ≠ MGRP or

\- T~SMTCperiod~ = MGRP and T~SSB~ \< 0.5\*T~SMTCperiod~

\-
$P = \frac{P_{\text{sharing\ factor}}}{1 - \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{\text{MGRP}}}$,
when the BFD-RS resource is partially overlapped with measurement gap
and the BFD-RS resource is partially overlapped with SMTC occasion
(T~SSB~ \< T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC occasion is not overlapped with
measurement gap and T~SMTCperiod~ = MGRP and T~SSB~ = 0.5\*T~SMTCperiod~

\-
$P = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{Min(MGRP,\text{\ T}_{\text{SMTCperiod}})}}$,
when the BFD-RS resource is partially overlapped with measurement gap
(T~SSB~ \<MGRP) and the BFD-RS resource is partially overlapped with
SMTC occasion (T~SSB~ \< T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC occasion is partially
or fully overlapped with measurement gap.

\-
$P = \frac{P_{\text{sharing\ factor}}}{1 - \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{\text{MGRP}}}$,
when the BFD-RS resource is partially overlapped with measurement gap
and the BFD-RS resource is fully overlapped with SMTC occasion (T~SSB~ =
T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC occasion is partially overlapped with
measurement gap (T~SMTCperiod~ \< MGRP)

\- P~sharing\ factor~ = 1, if the BFD-RS resource outside measurement
gap is

\- not overlapped with the SSB symbols indicated by SSB-ToMeasure and 1
data symbol before each consecutive SSB symbols indicated by
SSB-ToMeasure and 1 data symbol after each consecutive SSB symbols
indicated by SSB-ToMeasure, given that SSB-ToMeasure is configured,
where the *SSB-ToMeasure* is the union set of *SSB-ToMeasure* from all
the configured measurement objects merged on the same serving carrier,
and;

\- not overlapped with the RSSI symbols indicated by
*ss-RSSI-Measurement* and 1 data symbol before each RSSI symbol
indicated by *ss-RSSI-Measurement* and 1 data symbol after each RSSI
symbol indicated by *ss-RSSI-Measurement*, given that
*ss-RSSI-Measurement* is configured.

\- P~sharing\ factor~ = 3, otherwise.

where,

> If the high layer in TS 38.331 \[2\] signaling of *smtc2* is
> configured, T~SMTCperiod~ corresponds to the value of higher layer
> parameter *smtc2*; Otherwise T~SMTCperiod~ corresponds to the value of
> higher layer parameter *smtc1*. T~SMTCperiod~ is the shortest SMTC
> period among all CCs in the same FR2 band, given the SMTC offset of
> all CCs in FR2 provided the same offset.

Longer evaluation period would be expected if the combination of BFD-RS
resource, SMTC occasion and measurement gap configurations does not meet
pervious conditions.

For either an FR1 or FR2 serving cell, longer evaluation period would be
expected during the period T~identify\_CGI~ when the UE is requested to
decode an NR CGI.

For either an FR1 or FR2 serving cell, longer BFD evaluation period
would be expected during the period T~identify\_CGI,E-UTRAN~ when the UE
is requested to decode an LTE CGI.

Table 8.5.2.2-1: Evaluation period T~Evaluate\_BFD\_SSB~ for FR1

  Configuration                                                                                                                                                             T~Evaluate\_BFD\_SSB~ (ms)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------
  no DRX                                                                                                                                                                    Max(50, Ceil(5 × P) × T~SSB~)
  DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                                                                                                                                                         Max(50, Ceil(7.5 × P) × Max(T~DRX~,T~SSB~))
  DRX cycle \> 320ms                                                                                                                                                        Ceil(5 × P) × T~DRX~
  Note: T~SSB~ is the periodicity of SSB in the set ![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.21666666666666667in"}. T~DRX~ is the DRX cycle length.   

Table 8.5.2.2-2: Evaluation period T~Evaluate\_BFD\_SSB~ for FR2

  Configuration                                                                                                                                                             T~Evaluate\_BFD\_SSB~ (ms)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------
  no DRX                                                                                                                                                                    Max(50, Ceil(5 × P × N) × T~SSB~)
  DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                                                                                                                                                         Max(50, Ceil(7.5 × P × N) × Max(T~DRX~,T~SSB~))
  DRX cycle \> 320ms                                                                                                                                                        Ceil(5 × P × N) × T~DRX~
  Note: T~SSB~ is the periodicity of SSB in the set ![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.21666666666666667in"}. T~DRX~ is the DRX cycle length.   

#### 8.5.2.3 Measurement restriction for SSB based beam failure detection

The UE is required to be capable of measuring SSB for BFD without
measurement gaps. The UE is required to perform the SSB measurements
with measurement restrictions as described in the following scenarios.

For FR1, when the SSB for BFD measurement is in the same OFDM symbol as
CSI-RS for RLM, BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement,

\- If SSB and CSI-RS have same SCS, UE shall be able to measure the SSB
for BFD measurement without any restriction;

\- If SSB and CSI-RS have different SCS,

\- If UE supports *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology*, UE shall be
able to measure the SSB for BFD measurement without any restriction;

\- If UE does not support *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology*, UE is
required to measure one of but not both SSB for BFD measurement and
CSI-RS. Longer measurement period for SSB based BFD measurement is
expected, and no requirements are defined.

For FR2, when the SSB for BFD measurement on one CC is in the same OFDM
symbol as CSI-RS for RLM, BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement on the same CC
or different CCs in the same band, UE is required to measure one of but
not both SSB for BFD measurement and CSI-RS. Longer measurement period
for SSB based BFD measurement is expected, and no requirements are
defined.

For FR2, if the network configures same or mixed numerology between SSB
for BFD measurement on one FR2 band and CSI-RS for RLM, BFD, CBD,
L1-RSRP or L1-SINR measurement on the other FR2 band, UE shall be able
to perform the related SSB based measurements in one band without any
measurement restrictions on the other band, provided that UE is capable
of independent beam management on this FR2 band pair.

### 8.5.3 Requirements for CSI-RS based beam failure detection

#### 8.5.3.1 Introduction

The requirements in this clause apply for each CSI-RS resource in the
set ![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.21666666666666667in"} of resource configurations for a serving
cell, provided that the CSI-RS resource(s) in set
![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.21666666666666667in"}for beam failure detection are actually
transmitted within the UE active DL BWP during the entire evaluation
period specified in clause 8.5.3.2. UE is not expected to perform beam
failure detection measurements on the CSI-RS configured for BFD if the
CSI-RS is not QCL-ed, with QCL-TypeD when applicable, with the RS in the
active TCI state of any CORESET configured in the UE active BWP. The
requirements in this clause apply when UE is required to perform beam
failure detection on no more than 1 serving cell per band.

Table 8.5.3.1-1: PDCCH transmission parameters for beam failure instance

  Attribute                                                             Value for BLER
  --------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------
  DCI format                                                            1-0
  Number of control OFDM symbols                                        2
  Aggregation level (CCE)                                               8
  Ratio of hypothetical PDCCH RE energy to average CSI-RS RE energy     0dB
  Ratio of hypothetical PDCCH DMRS energy to average CSI-RS RE energy   0dB
  Bandwidth (PRBs)                                                      48
  Sub-carrier spacing (kHz)                                             SCS of the active DL BWP
  DMRS precoder granularity                                             REG bundle size
  REG bundle size                                                       6
  CP length                                                             Normal
  Mapping from REG to CCE                                               Distributed

#### 8.5.3.2 Minimum requirement

UE shall be able to evaluate whether the downlink radio link quality on
the CSI-RS resource in set estimated over the last
T~Evaluate\_BFD\_CSI-RS~ ms period becomes worse than the threshold
Q~out\_LR\_CSI-RS~ within T~Evaluate\_BFD\_CSI-RS~ ms period.

The value of T~Evaluate\_BFD\_CSI-RS~ is defined in Table 8.5.3.2-1 for
FR1.

The value of T~Evaluate\_BFD\_CSI-RS~ is defined in Table 8.5.3.2-2 for
FR2 with N=1. The requirements of T~Evaluate\_BFD\_CSI-RS~ apply
provided that the CSI-RS for BFD is not in a resource set configured
with repetition ON. The requirements shall not apply when the CSI-RS
resource in the active TCI state of CORESET is the same CSI-RS resource
for BFD and the TCI state information of the CSI-RS resource is not
given, wherein the TCI state information means QCL Type-D to SSB for
L1-RSRP or CSI-RS with repetition ON.

For FR1,

\- $P = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{\text{MGRP}}}$, when in the
monitored cell there are measurement gaps configured for
intra-frequency, inter-frequency or inter-RAT measurements, which are
overlapping with some but not all occasions of the CSI-RS.

\- P = 1 when in the monitored cell there are no measurement gaps
overlapping with any occasion of the CSI-RS.

For FR2,

\- P = 1, when the BFD-RS resource is not overlapped with measurement
gap and also not overlapped with SMTC occasion.

\- $P = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{\text{MGRP}}}$, when the BFD-RS
resource is partially overlapped with measurement gap and the BFD-RS
resource is not overlapped with SMTC occasion (T~CSI-RS~ \< MGRP)

\- $P = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{T_{\text{SMTCperiod}}}}$, when
the BFD-RS resource is not overlapped with measurement gap and the
BFD-RS resource is partially overlapped with SMTC occasion (T~CSI-RS~ \<
T~SMTCperiod~).

\- P = P~sharing\ factor~, when the BFD-RS resource is not overlapped
with measurement gap and the BFD-RS resource is fully overlapped with
SMTC occasion (T~CSI-RS~ = T~SMTCperiod~).

\-
$P = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{\text{MGRP}}\  - \ \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{T_{\text{SMTCperiod}}}}$,
when the BFD-RS resource is partially overlapped with measurement gap
and the BFD-RS resource is partially overlapped with SMTC occasion
(T~CSI-RS~ \< T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC occasion is not overlapped with
measurement gap and

\- T~SMTCperiod~ ≠ MGRP or

\- T~SMTCperiod~ = MGRP and T~CSI-RS~ \< 0.5 × T~SMTCperiod~

\-
$P = \frac{P_{\text{sharing\ factor}}}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{\text{MGRP}}}$,
when the BFD-RS resource is partially overlapped with measurement gap
and the BFD-RS resource is partially overlapped with SMTC occasion
(T~CSI-RS~ \< T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC occasion is not overlapped with
measurement gap and T~SMTCperiod~ = MGRP and T~CSI-RS~ = 0.5 ×
T~SMTCperiod~

\-
$P = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{Min(MGRP,\ T_{\text{SMTCperiod}})}}$,
when the BFD-RS resource is partially overlapped with measurement gap
(T~CSI-RS~ \< MGRP) and the BFD-RS resource is partially overlapped with
SMTC occasion (T~CSI-RS~ \< T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC occasion is
partially or fully overlapped with measurement gap.

\-
$P = \frac{P_{\text{sharing\ factor}}}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{\text{MGRP}}}$,
when the BFD-RS resource is partially overlapped with measurement gap
and the BFD-RS resource is fully overlapped with SMTC occasion
(T~CSI-RS~ = T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC occasion is partially overlapped
with measurement gap (T~SMTCperiod~ \< MGRP)

\- P~sharing\ factor~ = 1, if the BFD-RS resource outside measurement
gap is

\- not overlapped with the SSB symbols indicated by *SSB-ToMeasure* and
1 data symbol before each consecutive SSB symbols indicated by
*SSB-ToMeasure* and 1 data symbol after each consecutive SSB symbols
indicated by *SSB-ToMeasure*, given that *SSB-ToMeasure* is configured,
where the *SSB-ToMeasure* is the union set of *SSB-ToMeasure* from all
the configured measurement objects merged on the same serving carrier,
and;

\- not overlapped with the RSSI symbols indicated by
*ss-RSSI-Measurement* and 1 data symbol before each RSSI symbol
indicated by *ss-RSSI-Measurement* and 1 data symbol after each RSSI
symbol indicated by *ss-RSSI-Measurement*, given that
*ss-RSSI-Measurement* is configured,

\- P~sharing\ factor~ = 3, otherwise.

where,

If the high layer in TS 38.331 \[2\] signaling of *smtc2* is configured,
T~SMTCperiod~ corresponds to the value of higher layer parameter
*smtc2*; Otherwise T~SMTCperiod~ corresponds to the value of higher
layer parameter *smtc1*. T~SMTCperiod~ is the shortest SMTC period among
all CCs in the same FR2 band, provided the SMTC offset of all CCs in FR2
have the same offset.

Note: The overlap between CSI-RS for BFD and SMTC means that CSI-RS for
BFD is within the SMTC window duration.

Longer evaluation period would be expected if the combination of the
BFD-RS resource, SMTC occasion and measurement gap configurations does
not meet pervious conditions.

For either an FR1 or FR2 serving cell, longer evaluation period would be
expected during the period T~identify\_CGI~ when the UE is requested to
decode an NR CGI.

For either an FR1 or FR2 serving cell, longer BFD evaluation period
would be expected during the period T~identify\_CGI,E-UTRAN~ when the UE
is requested to decode an LTE CGI.

The values of M~BFD~ used in Table 8.5.3.2-1 and Table 8.5.3.2-2 are
defined as

\- M~BFD~ = 10, if the CSI-RS resource(s) in set
![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.21666666666666667in"} used for BFD is transmitted with Density
= 3 and over the bandwidth ≥ 24 PRBs.

The values of P~BFD~ used in Table 8.5.3.2-1 and Table 8.5.3.2-2 are
defined as

For each CSI-RS resource in the set
![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.21666666666666667in"} configured for PCell or PSCell in EN-DC
or NE-DC or SA; or PCell in NR-DC

\- P~BFD~ = 1.

For each CSI-RS resource in the set
![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.21666666666666667in"} configured for PSCell in NR-DC

P~BFD~ = 2 if UE is configured for beam failure detection on SCell, 1
otherwise.

For each CSI-RS resource in the set
![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.21666666666666667in"} configured for a SCell

\- P~BFD~ = Z in EN-DC or NE-DC or SA.

\- P~BFD~ = 2\* Z in NR-DC.

Where Z is the number of band(s) on which UE is performing beam failure
detection only for SCell

**Table 8.5.3.2-1: Evaluation period T~Evaluate\_BFD\_CSI-RS~ for FR1**

  Configuration                                                                                                                                                                            T~Evaluate\_BFD\_CSI-RS~ (ms)
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------
  no DRX                                                                                                                                                                                   Max(50, Ceil(M~BFD~ × P × P~BFD~) × T~CSI-RS~)
  DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                                                                                                                                                                        Max(50, Ceil(1.5 × M~BFD~ × P × P~BFD~) × Max(T~DRX~, T~CSI-RS~))
  DRX cycle \> 320ms                                                                                                                                                                       Ceil(M~BFD~ × P × P~BFD~) × T~DRX~
  Note: T~CSI-RS~ is the periodicity of CSI-RS resource in the set ![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.21666666666666667in"}. T~DRX~ is the DRX cycle length.   

**Table 8.5.3.2-2: Evaluation period T~Evaluate\_BFD\_CSI-RS~ for FR2**

  Configuration                                                                                                                                                                            T~Evaluate\_BFD\_CSI-RS~ (ms)
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  no DRX                                                                                                                                                                                   Max(50, Ceil(M~BFD~ × P × N × P~BFD~) × T~CSI-RS~)
  DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                                                                                                                                                                        Max(50, Ceil(1.5 × M~BFD~ × P × N × P~BFD~) × Max(T~DRX~, T~CSI-RS~))
  DRX cycle \> 320ms                                                                                                                                                                       Ceil(M~BFD~ × P × N × P~BFD~) × T~DRX~
  Note: T~CSI-RS~ is the periodicity of CSI-RS resource in the set ![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.21666666666666667in"}. T~DRX~ is the DRX cycle length.   

#### 8.5.3.3 Measurement restrictions for CSI-RS beam failure detection

The UE is required to be capable of measuring CSI-RS for BFD without
measurement gaps. The UE is required to perform the CSI-RS measurements
with measurement restrictions as described in the following scenarios.

For both FR1 and FR2, when the CSI-RS for BFD measurement is in the same
OFDM symbol as SSB for RLM, BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement, UE is not
required to receive CSI-RS for BFD measurement in the PRBs that overlap
with an SSB.

For FR1, when the SSB for RLM, BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement is within
the active BWP and has same SCS than CSI-RS for BFD measurement, the UE
shall be able to perform CSI-RS measurement without restrictions.

For FR1, when the SSB for RLM, BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement is within
the active BWP and has different SCS than CSI-RS for BFD measurement,
the UE shall be able to perform CSI-RS measurement with restrictions
according to its capabilities:

\- If the UE supports *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology* the UE
shall be able to perform CSI-RS measurement without restrictions.

\- If the UE does not support *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology*, UE
is required to measure one of but not both CSI-RS for BFD measurement
and SSB. Longer measurement period for CSI-RS based BFD measurement is
expected, and no requirements are defined.

For FR1, when the CSI-RS for BFD measurement is in the same OFDM symbol
as another CSI-RS for RLM, BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement, UE shall be
able to measure the CSI-RS for BFD measurement without any restriction.

For FR2, when the CSI-RS for BFD measurement on one CC is in the same
OFDM symbol as SSB for RLM, BFD or L1-RSRP measurement on the same CC or
different CCs in the same band, or in the same symbol as SSB for CBD
measurement on the same CC or different CCs in the same band when beam
failure is detected, UE is required to measure one of but not both
CSI-RS for BFD measurement and SSB. Longer measurement period for CSI-RS
based BFD measurement is expected, and no requirements are defined.

For FR2, when the CSI-RS for BFD measurement on one CC is in the same
OFDM symbol as another CSI-RS for RLM, BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement
on the same CC or different CCs in the same band,

\- In the following cases, UE is required to measure one of but not both
CSI-RS for BFD measurement and the other CSI-RS. Longer measurement
period for CSI-RS based BFD measurement is expected, and no requirements
are defined.

\- The CSI-RS for BFD measurement or the other CSI-RS in a resource set
configured with repetition ON, or

\- The other CSI-RS is configured in set
![](media/image15.wmf){width="0.14583333333333334in" height="0.21875in"}
and beam failure is detected, or

\- The two CSI-RS-es are not QCL-ed w.r.t. QCL-TypeD, or the QCL
information is not known to UE,

\- Otherwise, UE shall be able to measure the CSI-RS for BFD measurement
without any restriction.

### 8.5.4 Minimum requirement for L1 indication

When the radio link quality on all the RS resources in set is worse than
Q~out\_LR~, layer 1 of the UE shall send a beam failure instance
indication to the higher layers.

The beam failure instance evaluation for the RS resources in set shall
be performed as specified in clause 6 in TS 38.213 \[3\]. Two successive
indications from layer 1 shall be separated by at least
T~Indication\_interval\_BFD~.

When DRX is not used, T~Indication\_interval\_BFD~ is max(2ms,
T~SSB-RS,M~) ) or max(2ms, T~CSI-RS,M~), where T~SSB-RS,M~ and
T~CSI-RS,M~ is the shortest periodicity of all RS resources in set for
the accessed cell, corresponding to either the shortest periodicity of
the SSB in the set or CSI-RS resource in the set .

When DRX is used, for SSB based link quality measurement,

\- T~Indication\_interval\_BFD~ = Max(1.5 × DRX\_cycle\_length, 1.5 ×
T~SSB-RS,M~), if DRX\_cycle\_length ≤ 320ms,

\- T~Indication\_interval\_BFD~ = DRX\_cycle\_length, if
DRX\_cycle\_length \> 320ms.

When DRX is used, for CSI-RS based link quality measurement,

\- T~Indication\_interval\_BFD~ = Max(1.5 × DRX\_cycle\_length, 1.5 ×
T~CSI-RS,M~), if DRX\_cycle\_length ≤ 320ms,

\- T~Indication\_interval\_BFD~ = DRX\_cycle\_length, if
DRX\_cycle\_length \> 320ms.

### 8.5.5 Requirements for SSB based candidate beam detection

#### 8.5.5.1 Introduction

The requirements in this clause apply for each SSB resource in the set
![](media/image15.wmf){width="0.14583333333333334in" height="0.21875in"}
configured for a serving cell, provided that the SSBs configured for
candidate beam detection are actually transmitted within UE active DL
BWP during the entire evaluation period specified in clause 8.5.5.2. The
requirements in this clause apply when UE is required to perform beam
failure detection on no more than 1 serving cell per band.

#### 8.5.5.2 Minimum requirement

Upon request the UE shall be able to evaluate whether the L1-RSRP
measured on the configured SSB resource in set
![](media/image15.wmf){width="0.14583333333333334in" height="0.21875in"}
estimated over the last T~Evaluate\_CBD\_SSB~ ms period becomes better
than the threshold Q~in\_LR~ provided SSB\_RP and SSB Ês/Iot are
according to Annex Table B.2.4.1 for a corresponding band.

The UE shall monitor the configured SSB resources using the evaluation
period in table 8.5.5.2-1 and 8.5.5.2-2 corresponding to the non-DRX
mode, if the configured DRX cycle ≤ 320ms.

The value of T~Evaluate\_CBD\_SSB~ is defined in Table 8.5.5.2-1 for
FR1.

The value of T~Evaluate\_CBD\_SSB~ is defined in Table 8.5.5.2-2 for FR2
with scaling factor N=8.

where,

For FR1,

\- $P = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{\text{MGRP}}}$, when in the
monitored cell there are measurement gaps configured for
intra-frequency, inter-frequency or inter-RAT measurements, which are
overlapping with some but not all occasions of the SSB,

\- P = 1 when in the monitored cell there are no measurement gaps
overlapping with any occasion of the SSB.

For FR2,

\- $P = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{T_{\text{SMTCperiod}}}}$,
when candidate beam detection RS is not overlapped with measurement gap
and candidate beam detection RS is partially overlapped with SMTC
occasion (T~SSB~ \< T~SMTCperiod~).

\- P is P~sharing\ factor~, when candidate beam detection RS is not
overlapped with measurement gap and candidate beam detection RS is fully
overlapped with SMTC period (T~SSB~ = T~SMTCperiod~).

\-
$P = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{\text{MGRP}}\  - \ \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{T_{\text{SMTCperiod}}}}$,
when candidate beam detection RS is partially overlapped with
measurement gap and candidate beam detection RS is partially overlapped
with SMTC occasion (T~SSB~ \< T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC occasion is not
overlapped with measurement gap and

\- T~SMTCperiod~ ≠ MGRP or

\- T~SMTCperiod~ = MGRP and T~SSB~ \< 0.5 × T~SMTCperiod~

\-
$P = \frac{P_{\text{sharing\ factor}}}{1 - \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{\text{MGRP}}}$,
when candidate beam detection RS is partially overlapped with
measurement gap and candidate beam detection RS is partially overlapped
with SMTC occasion (T~SSB~ \< T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC occasion is not
overlapped with measurement gap and T~SMTCperiod~ = MGRP and T~SSB~ =
0.5 × T~SMTCperiod~

\-
$P = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{Min(MGRP,T_{\text{SMTCperiod}})}}$,
when candidate beam detection RS is partially overlapped with
measurement gap and candidate beam detection RS is partially overlapped
with SMTC occasion (T~SSB~ \< T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC occasion is
partially or fully overlapped with measurement gap

\-
$P = \frac{P_{\text{sharing\ factor}}}{1 - \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{\text{MGRP}}}$,
when candidate beam detection RS is partially overlapped with
measurement gap and candidate beam detection RS is fully overlapped with
SMTC occasion (T~SSB~ = T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC occasion is partially
overlapped with measurement gap (T~SMTCperiod~ \< MGRP)

\- P~sharing\ factor~ = 1, if the candidate beam detection RS outside
measurement gap is

\- not overlapped with the SSB symbols indicated by *SSB-ToMeasure* and
1 data symbol before each consecutive SSB symbols indicated by
*SSB-ToMeasure* and 1 data symbol after each consecutive SSB symbols
indicated by *SSB-ToMeasure*, given that *SSB-ToMeasure* is configured,
where the *SSB-ToMeasure* is the union set of *SSB-ToMeasure* from all
the configured measurement objects merged on the same serving carrier,
and;

\- not overlapped with the RSSI symbols indicated by
*ss-RSSI-Measurement* and 1 data symbol before each RSSI symbol
indicated by *ss-RSSI-Measurement* and 1 data symbol after each RSSI
symbol indicated by *ss-RSSI-Measurement*, given that
*ss-RSSI-Measurement* is configured

\- P~sharing\ factor~ = 3, otherwise.

where,

If the high layer in TS 38.331 \[2\] signaling of *smtc2* is present,
T~SMTCperiod~ follows *smtc2*; Otherwise T~SMTCperiod~ follows *smtc1.*
T~SMTCperiod~ is the shortest SMTC period among all CCs in the same FR2
band, provided the SMTC offset of all CCs in FR2 have the same offset.

Longer evaluation period would be expected if the combination of the
CBD-RS resource, SMTC occasion and measurement gap configurations does
not meet pervious conditions.

For either an FR1 or FR2 serving cell, longer evaluation period would be
expected during the period T~identify\_CGI~ when the UE is requested to
decode an NR CGI.

For either an FR1 or FR2 serving cell, longer CBD evaluation period
would be expected during the period T~identify\_CGI,E-UTRAN~ when the UE
is requested to decode an LTE CGI.

The values of P~CBD~ used in Table 8.5.5.2-1 and Table 8.5.5.2-2 are
defined as

For each SSB resource in the set
![](media/image15.wmf){width="0.14583333333333334in" height="0.21875in"}
configured for PCell or PSCell in EN-DC or NE-DC or SA; or PCell in
NR-DC

\- P~CBD~ = 1.

For each SSB resource in the set
![](media/image15.wmf){width="0.14583333333333334in" height="0.21875in"}
configured for PSCell in NR-DC

\- P~CBD~ = 2 if UE is configured for candidate beam detection on SCell,
1 otherwise.

For each SSB resource in the set
![](media/image15.wmf){width="0.14583333333333334in" height="0.21875in"}
configured for a SCell

\- P~CBD~ = Z in EN-DC or NE-DC or SA.

\- P~CBD~ = 2\* Z in NR-DC.

Where Z is the number of band(s) on which UE is performing beam failure
detection only for SCell

Table 8.5.5.2-1: Evaluation period T~Evaluate\_CBD\_SSB~ for FR1

  **Configuration**                                                                                                                                             **T~Evaluate\_CBD\_SSB~ (ms)**
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------
  non-DRX, DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                                                                                                                                    Max(25, Ceil(3 × P × P~CBD~) × T~SSB~)
  DRX cycle \> 320ms                                                                                                                                            Ceil(3 × P × P~CBD~) × T~DRX~
  Note: T~SSB~ is the periodicity of SSB in the set ![](media/image15.wmf){width="0.14583333333333334in" height="0.21875in"}. T~DRX~ is the DRX cycle length.   

**Table 8.5.5.2-2: Evaluation period T~Evaluate\_CBD\_SSB~ for FR2**

  **Configuration**                                                                                                                                             **T~Evaluate\_CBD\_SSB~ (ms)**
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------
  non-DRX, DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                                                                                                                                    Max(25, Ceil(3 × P × N × P~CBD~) × T~SSB~)
  DRX cycle \> 320ms                                                                                                                                            Ceil(3 × P × N × P~CBD~) × T~DRX~
  Note: T~SSB~ is the periodicity of SSB in the set ![](media/image15.wmf){width="0.14583333333333334in" height="0.21875in"}. T~DRX~ is the DRX cycle length.   

#### 8.5.5.3 Measurement restriction for SSB based candidate beam detection

For FR1, when the SSB for CBD measurement is in the same OFDM symbol as
CSI-RS for RLM, BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement,

\- If SSB and CSI-RS have same SCS, UE shall be able to measure the SSB
for CBD measurement without any restrictions;

\- If SSB and CSI-RS have different SCS-es,

\- If UE supports *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology*, UE shall be
able to measure the SSB for CBD measurement without any restriction;

\- If UE does not support *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology*, UE is
required to measure one of but not both SSB for CBD measurement and
CSI-RS. Longer measurement period for SSB based CBD measurement is
expected, and no requirements are defined.

For FR2, when the SSB for CBD measurement on one CC is in the same OFDM
symbol as CSI-RS for RLM, BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement on the same CC
or different CCs in the same band, UE is required to measure one of but
not both SSB for CBD measurement and CSI-RS. Longer measurement period
for SSB based CBD measurement is expected, and no requirements are
defined.

For FR2, if the network configures same or mixed numerology between SSB
for CBD measurement on one FR2 band and CSI-RS for RLM, BFD, CBD,
L1-RSRP or L1-SINR measurement on the other FR2 band, UE shall be able
to perform the related SSB based measurements in one band without any
measurement restrictions in the other band, provided that UE is capable
of independent beam management on this FR2 band pair.

### 8.5.6 Requirements for CSI-RS based candidate beam detection

#### 8.5.6.1 Introduction

The requirements in this clause apply for each CSI-RS resource in the
set ![](media/image15.wmf){width="0.14583333333333334in"
height="0.21875in"} configured for a serving cell, provided that the
CSI-RS resources configured for candidate beam detection are actually
transmitted within UE active DL BWP during the entire evaluation period
specified in clause 8.5.6.2. The requirements in this clause apply when
UE is required to perform beam failure detection on no more than 1
serving cell per band.

#### 8.5.6.2 Minimum requirement

Upon request the UE shall be able to evaluate whether the L1-RSRP
measured on the configured CSI-RS resource in set
![](media/image15.wmf){width="0.14583333333333334in" height="0.21875in"}
estimated over the last T~Evaluate\_CBD\_CSI-RS~ \[ms\] period becomes
better than the threshold Q~in\_LR~ within T~Evaluate\_CBD\_CSI-RS~
\[ms\] period provided CSI-RS Ês/Iot is according to Annex Table B.2.4.2
for a corresponding band.

The UE shall monitor the configured CSI-RS resources using the
evaluation period in table 8.5.6.2-1 and 8.5.6.2-2 corresponding to the
non-DRX mode, if the configured DRX cycle ≤ 320ms.

The value of T~Evaluate\_CBD\_CSI-RS~ is defined in Table 8.5.6.2-1 for
FR1.

The value of T~Evaluate\_CBD\_CSI-RS~ is defined in Table 8.5.6.2-2 for
FR2 with scaling factor N=8.

For FR1,

\- $P = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{\text{MGRP}}}$, when in the
monitored cell there are measurement gaps configured for
intra-frequency, inter-frequency or inter-RAT measurements, which are
overlapping with some but not all occasions of the CSI-RS; and

\- P = 1 when in the monitored cell there are no measurement gaps
overlapping with any occasion of the CSI-RS.

For FR2,

\- P = 1, when candidate beam detection RS is not overlapped with
measurement gap and also not overlapped with SMTC occasion.

\- $P = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{\text{MGRP}}}$ when candidate
beam detection RS is partially overlapped with measurement gap and
candidate beam detection RS is not overlapped with SMTC occasion
(T~CSI-RS~ \< MGRP)

\- $P = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{T_{\text{SMTCperiod}}}}$, when
candidate beam detection RS is not overlapped with measurement gap and
candidate beam detection RS is partially overlapped with SMTC occasion
(T~CSI-RS~ \< T~SMTCperiod~).

\- P =P~sharing\ factor~, when candidate beam detection RS is not
overlapped with measurement gap and candidate beam detection RS is fully
overlapped with SMTC occasion (T~CSI-RS~ = T~SMTCperiod~).

\-
$P = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{\text{MGRP}}\  - \ \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{T_{\text{SMTCperiod}}}}$,,
when candidate beam detection RS is partially overlapped with
measurement gap and candidate beam detection RS is partially overlapped
with SMTC occasion (T~CSI-RS~ \< T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC occasion is not
overlapped with measurement gap and

\- T~SMTCperiod~ ≠ MGRP or

\- T~SMTCperiod~ = MGRP and T~CSI-RS~ \< 0.5 × T~SMTCperiod~

\-
$P = \frac{P_{\text{sharing\ factor}}}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{\text{MGRP}}}$,
when candidate beam detection RS is partially overlapped with
measurement gap and candidate beam detection RS is partially overlapped
with SMTC occasion (T~CSI-RS~ \< T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC occasion is not
overlapped with measurement gap and T~SMTCperiod~ = MGRP and T~CSI-RS~ =
0.5 × T~SMTCperiod~

\-
$P = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{Min(MGRP,\ T_{\text{SMTCperiod}})}}$,
when candidate beam detection RS is partially overlapped with
measurement gap and candidate beam detection RS is partially overlapped
with SMTC occasion (T~CSI-RS~ \< T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC occasion is
partially or fully overlapped with measurement gap

\- $P = \frac{3}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{\text{MGRP}}}$,, when candidate
beam detection RS is partially overlapped with measurement gap and
candidate beam detection RS is fully overlapped with SMTC occasion
(T~CSI-RS~ = T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC occasion is partially overlapped
with measurement gap (T~SMTCperiod~ \< MGRP)

\- P~sharing\ factor~ = 1, if the candidate beam detection RS outside
measurement gap is

\- not overlapped with the SSB symbols indicated by *SSB-ToMeasure* and
1 data symbol before each consecutive SSB symbols indicated by
*SSB-ToMeasure* and 1 data symbol after each consecutive SSB symbols
indicated by *SSB-ToMeasure*, given that *SSB-ToMeasure* is configured,
where the *SSB-ToMeasure* is the union set of *SSB-ToMeasure* from all
the configured measurement objects merged on the same serving carrier,
and;

\- not overlapped with the RSSI symbols indicated by
*ss-RSSI-Measurement* and 1 data symbol before each RSSI symbol
indicated by *ss-RSSI-Measurement* and 1 data symbol after each RSSI
symbol indicated by *ss-RSSI-Measurement*, given that
*ss-RSSI-Measurement* is configured.

\- P~sharing\ factor~ = 3, otherwise.

where,

If the high layer in TS 38.331 \[2\] signaling of *smtc2* is present,
T~SMTCperiod~ follows *smtc2*; Otherwise T~SMTCperiod~ follows *smtc1*.
T~SMTCperiod~ is the shortest SMTC period among all CCs in the same FR2
band, provided the SMTC offset of all CCs in FR2 have the same offset.

Note: The overlap between CSI-RS for CBD and SMTC means that CSI-RS for
CBD is within the SMTC window duration.

Longer evaluation period would be expected if the combination of the
CBD-RS resource, SMTC occasion and measurement gap configurations does
not meet pervious conditions.

Longer evaluation period would be expected if the CSI-RS is on the same
OFDM symbols with RLM, BFD, BM-RS, or other CBD-RS, according to the
measurement restrictions defined in clause 8.5.6.3.

For either an FR1 or FR2 serving cell, longer evaluation period would be
expected during the period T~identify\_CGI~ when the UE is requested to
decode an NR CGI.

For either an FR1 or FR2 serving cell, longer CBD evaluation period
would be expected during the period T~identify\_CGI,E-UTRAN~ when the UE
is requested to decode an LTE CGI.

The values of M~CBD~ used in Table 8.5.6.2-1 and Table 8.5.6.2-2 are
defined as

\- M~CBD~ = 3, if the CSI-RS resource configured in the set
![](media/image15.wmf){width="0.14583333333333334in" height="0.21875in"}
is transmitted with Density = 3 and over the bandwidth ≥ 24 PRBs.

The values of P~CBD~ used in Table 8.5.6.2-1 and Table 8.5.6.2-2 are
defined as

For each CSI-RS resource in the set
![](media/image15.wmf){width="0.14583333333333334in" height="0.21875in"}
configured for PCell or PSCell in EN-DC or NE-DC or SA; or PCell in
NR-DC

\- P~CBD~ = 1.

For each CSI-RS resource in the set
![](media/image15.wmf){width="0.14583333333333334in" height="0.21875in"}
configured for PSCell in NR-DC

\- P~CBD~ = 2 if UE configured for candidate beam detection on SCell, 1
otherwise.

For each CSI-RS resource in the set
![](media/image15.wmf){width="0.14583333333333334in" height="0.21875in"}
configured for a SCell

\- P~CBD~ = Z in EN-DC or NE-DC or SA.

\- P~CBD~ = 2\* Z in NR-DC.

Where Z is the number of band(s) on which UE is performing beam failure
detection only for SCell

**Table 8.5.6.2-1: Evaluation period T~Evaluate\_CBD\_CSI-RS~ for FR1**

  **Configuration**                                                                                                                                                            **T~EvaluateC\_CBD\_CSI-RS~ (ms)**
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------
  non-DRX, DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                                                                                                                                                   Max(25, Ceil(M~CBD~ × P × P~CBD~) × T~CSI-RS~)
  DRX cycle \> 320ms                                                                                                                                                           Ceil(M~CBD~ × P × P~CBD~) × T~DRX~
  Note: T~CSI-RS~ is the periodicity of CSI-RS resource in the set ![](media/image15.wmf){width="0.14583333333333334in" height="0.21875in"}. T~DRX~ is the DRX cycle length.   

**Table 8.5.6.2-2: Evaluation period T~Evaluate\_CBD\_CSI-RS~ for FR2**

  **Configuration**                                                                                                                                                            **T~Evaluate\_CBD\_CSI-RS~ (ms)**
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------
  non-DRX, DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                                                                                                                                                   Max(25, Ceil(M~CBD~ × P × N × P~CBD~) × T~CSI-RS~)
  DRX cycle \> 320ms                                                                                                                                                           Ceil(M~CBD~ × P × N × P~CBD~) × T~DRX~
  Note: T~CSI-RS~ is the periodicity of CSI-RS resource in the set ![](media/image15.wmf){width="0.14583333333333334in" height="0.21875in"}. T~DRX~ is the DRX cycle length.   

#### 8.5.6.3 Measurement restriction for CSI-RS based candidate beam detection

For both FR1 and FR2, when the CSI-RS for CBD measurement is in the same
OFDM symbol as SSB for RLM, BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement, UE is not
required to receive CSI-RS for CBD measurement in the PRBs that overlap
with an SSB.

For FR1, when the SSB for RLM, BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement is within
the active BWP and has same SCS than CSI-RS for CBD measurement, the UE
shall be able to perform CSI-RS based CBD measurement without
restrictions.

For FR1, when the SSB for RLM, BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement is within
the active BWP and has different SCS than CSI-RS for CBD measurement,
the UE shall be able to perform CSI-RS based CBD measurement with
restrictions according to its capabilities:

\- If the UE supports *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology* the UE
shall be able to perform CSI-RS based CBD measurement for without
restrictions.

\- If the UE does not support *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology*, UE
is required to measure one of but not both CSI-RS for CBD measurement
and SSB. Longer measurement period for CSI-RS based CBD measurement is
expected, and no requirements are defined.

For FR1, when the CSI-RS for CBD measurement is in the same OFDM symbol
as another CSI-RS for RLM, BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement, UE shall be
able to measure the CSI-RS for CBD measurement without any restriction.

For FR2, when the CSI-RS for CBD measurement on one CC is in the same
OFDM symbol as SSB for RLM, BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement on the same
CC or different CCs in the same band, UE is required to measure one of
but not both CSI-RS for CBD measurement and SSB. Longer evaluation
period for CSI-RS based CBD measurement is expected, and no requirements
are defined.

For FR2, when the CSI-RS for CBD measurement on one CC is in the same
OFDM symbol as another CSI-RS for RLM, BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement
on the same CC or different CCs in the same band, UE is required to
measure one of but not both CSI-RS for CBD measurement and the other
CSI-RS. Longer evaluation period for CSI-RS based CBD measurement is
expected, and no requirements are defined.

### 8.5.7 Scheduling availability of UE during beam failure detection

Scheduling availability restrictions when the UE is performing beam
failure detection are described in the following clauses.

#### 8.5.7.1 Scheduling availability of UE performing beam failure detection with a same subcarrier spacing as PDSCH/PDCCH on FR1

There are no scheduling restrictions due to beam failure detection
performed on SSB and CSI-RS configured for BFD with the same SCS as
PDSCH or PDCCH in FR1.

#### 8.5.7.2 Scheduling availability of UE performing beam failure detection with a different subcarrier spacing than PDSCH/PDCCH on FR1

For UEs which support *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology* \[14\]
there are no restrictions on scheduling availability due to beam failure
detection when SSB is configured as BFD. For UEs which do not support
*simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology* \[14\] the following restrictions
apply due to beam failure detection when SSB is configured as BFD.

> \- The UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH, PUSCH or SRS or receive
> PDCCH, PDSCH or CSI-RS for tracking or CSI-RS for CQI on SSB symbols
> to be measured for beam failure detection.

When intra-band carrier aggregation in FR1 is configured, the scheduling
restrictions on FR1 serving PCell or PSCell apply to all serving cells
in the same band on the symbols that fully or partially overlap with
restricted symbols. When inter-band carrier aggregation within FR1 is
configured, there are no scheduling restrictions on FR1 serving cell(s)
configured in other bands than the bands in which PCell or PSCell is
configured.

#### 8.5.7.3 Scheduling availability of UE performing beam failure detection on FR2

The following scheduling restriction applies due to beam failure
detection.

> \- For the case where no RSs are provided for BFD, or when CSI-RS is
> configured for BFD is explicitly configured and is type-D QCLed with
> active TCI state for PDCCH or PDSCH, and the CSI-RS is not in a CSI-RS
> resource set with repetition ON

\- There are no scheduling restrictions due to beam failure detection
performed based on the CSI-RS.

\- Otherwise

\- The UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH, PUSCH or SRS or receive
PDCCH, PDSCH or CSI-RS for tracking or CSI-RS for CQI on BFD-RS resource
symbols to be measured for beam failure detection.

When intra-band carrier aggregation in FR2 is performed, the scheduling
restrictions on FR2 serving PCell or PSCell apply to all serving cells
in the same band on the symbols that fully or partially overlap with
restricted symbols.

When inter-band carrier aggregation in FR2 is performed, there are no
scheduling restrictions on FR2 serving cells in the bands due to beam
failure detection performed on FR2 serving cell(s) in different band(s),
provided that UE is capable of independent beam management on this FR2
band pair. Additionally, there is no scheduling restriction if the UE is
configured with different numerology between SSB on one FR2 band and
data on the other FR2 band provided the UE is configured for IBM
operation for the band pair.

For FR2, if following conditions are met,

\- UE has been notified about system information update through paging,

\- The gap between UE's reception of PDCCH that UE monitors in the
Type2-PDCCH CSS set and that notifies system information update, and the
PDCCH that UE monitors in the Type0-PDCCH CSS set, is greater than 2
slots,

For the SSB and CORESET for RMSI scheduling multiplexing patterns 3, UE
is expected to receive the PDCCH that UE monitors in the Type0-PDCCH CSS
set, and the corresponding PDSCH, on SSB symbols to be measured for BFD
mesurement; and

For the SSB and CORESET for RMSI scheduling multiplexing patterns 2, UE
is expected to receive PDSCH that corresponds to the PDCCH that UE
monitors in the Type0-PDCCH CSS set, on SSB symbols to be measured for
BFD mesurement.

#### 8.5.7.4 Scheduling availability of UE performing beam failure detection on FR1 or FR2 in case of FR1-FR2 inter-band CA and NR DC

There are no scheduling restrictions on FR1 serving cell(s) due to beam
failure detection performed on FR2 serving PCell and/or PSCell.

There are no scheduling restrictions on FR2 serving cell(s) due to beam
failure detection performed on FR1 serving PCell and/or PSCell.

### 8.5.8 Scheduling availability of UE during candidate beam detection

Scheduling availability restrictions when the UE is performing L1-RSRP
measurement for candidate beam detection are described in the following
clauses.

#### 8.5.8.1 Scheduling availability of UE performing L1-RSRP measurement with a same subcarrier spacing as PDSCH/PDCCH on FR1

There are no scheduling restrictions due to L1-RSRP measurement
performed on SSB and CSI-RS configured as link recovery detection
resource with the same SCS as PDSCH or PDCCH in FR1.

#### 8.5.8.2 Scheduling availability of UE performing L1-RSRP measurement with a different subcarrier spacing than PDSCH/PDCCH on FR1

For UEs which support *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology* \[14\]
there are no restrictions on scheduling availability due to L1-RSRP
measurement based on SSB as link recovery detection resource. For UEs
which do not support *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology* \[14\] the
following restrictions apply due to L1-RSRP measurement based on SSB
configured as link recovery detection resource.

\- The UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH, PUSCH or SRS or receive
PDCCH, PDSCH, TRS, CSI-RS for tracking or CSI-RS for CQI on SSB symbols
to be measured for L1-RSRP.

When intra-band carrier aggregation in FR1 is configured, the scheduling
restrictions on one serving cell apply to all other serving cells in the
same band on the symbols that fully or partially overlap with the
restricted symbols. When inter-band carrier aggregation within FR1 is
configured, there are no scheduling restrictions on FR1 serving cell(s)
configured in other bands.

#### 8.5.8.3 Scheduling availability of UE performing L1-RSRP measurement on FR2

The following scheduling restriction applies due to candidate beam
detection

\- The UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH, PUSCH or SRS or receive
PDCCH, PDSCH, CSI-RS for tracking or CSI-RS for CQI on reference symbols
to be measured for candidate beam detection.

When intra-band carrier aggregation in FR2 is configured, the scheduling
restrictions on to one serving cell apply to all serving cells in the
same band on the symbols that fully or partially overlap with restricted
symbols.

When inter-band carrier aggregation in FR2 is performed, there are no
scheduling restrictions on FR2 serving cells in the bands due to
candidate beam detection performed on FR2 serving cell(s) in different
band(s), provided that the FR2 serving cell(s) and the FR2 serving
cell(s) for candidate beam detection are in a FR2 band pair and UE is
capable of independent beam management on this FR2 band pair.
Additionally, there is no scheduling restriction if the UE is configured
with different numerology between SSB on one FR2 band and data on the
other FR2 band provided the UE is configured for IBM operation for the
band pair.

For FR2, if following conditions are met,

\- UE has been notified about system information update through paging,

\- The gap between UE's reception of PDCCH that UE monitors in the
Type2-PDCCH CSS set and that notifies system information update, and the
PDCCH that UE monitors in the Type0-PDCCH CSS set, is greater than 2
slots,

For the SSB and CORESET for RMSI scheduling multiplexing patterns 3, UE
is expected to receive the PDCCH that UE monitors in the Type0-PDCCH CSS
set, and the corresponding PDSCH, on SSB symbols to be measured for CBD
mesurement; and

For the SSB and CORESET for RMSI scheduling multiplexing patterns 2, UE
is expected to receive PDSCH that corresponds to the PDCCH that UE
monitors in the Type0-PDCCH CSS set, on SSB symbols to be measured for
CBD mesurement.

#### 8.5.8.4 Scheduling availability of UE performing L1-RSRP measurement on FR1 or FR2 in case of FR1-FR2 inter-band CA and NR-DC

There are no scheduling restrictions on FR1 serving cell(s) due to
L1-RSRP measurement performed on FR2 serving cell(s).

There are no scheduling restrictions on FR2 serving cell(s) due to
L1-RSRP measurement performed on FR1 serving cell(s).

### 8.5.9 Requirements for Beam Failure Recovery in SCell 

#### 8.5.9.1 Introduction

For the UE provided with a configuration of PUCCH transmission with a
link recovery request (LRR) as described in clause 9.2.4 in TS 38.213
\[3\], if beam recovery procedure is triggered for any of SCells, the UE
shall transmit SR for UL resouce, followed by MAC CE providing one index
for at least one corresponding SCell with radio link quality is worse
than Q~out,LR~, and the index $q_{\text{new}}$ for a periodic CSI-RS
configuration or for a SSB provided by higher layer, as described in
clause 5.17 of TS38.321 \[7\], if any, for a corresponding SCell.

For the UE not provided with a configuration of PUCCH transmission with
a link recovery request (LRR) as described in clause 9.2.4 in TS 38.213
\[3\], if beam recovery procedure is triggered for any of SCells, the UE
shall transmit preamble for UL-SCH resource application, followed by MAC
CE providing one index for at least one corresponding SCell with radio
link quality is worse than Q~out,LR~, and the index $q_{\text{new}}$ for
a periodic CSI-RS configuration or for a SSB provided by higher layer,
as described in clause 5.17 of TS38.321 \[7\], if any, for a
corresponding SCell.

#### 8.5.9.2 Requirement

Provided that UE is configured by *schedulingRequestIDForBFR* a
configuration for LRR in a PUCCH transmission, after BFR is triggered on
any of SCells as described in clause 5.17 of TS38.321 \[7\], UE shall be
capable of transmit PUCCH with a LRR within a period of T, where

\- T = T~1~ x Ceil((T~2~+D) /T~1~) in which T~1~, T~2~ and D are defined
as

\- T~1~ is equal to the periodicity of PUCCH configured with
*schedulingRequestIDForBFR*.

\- T~2~ = T~Evaluate\_CBD~ is the evaluation period specified in clause
8.5.5 or 8.5.6 for SSB or CSI-RS based candidate beam detection, that is
T~Evaluate\_CBD\_SSB~ or T~Evaluate\_CBD\_CSI-RS~, depending on the
applicable reference signal configured for candidate beam detection.

\- D = 2ms is the UE Processing time.

### 8.5.10 Minimum requirement at transitions for beam failure detection

When the UE transitions between DRX and no DRX or when DRX cycle
periodicity changes, for each BFD-RS resource, for a duration of time
equal to the evaluation period corresponding to the second mode after
the transition occurs, the UE shall use an evaluation period that is no
less than the minimum of evaluation period corresponding to the first
mode and the second mode. Subsequent to this duration, the UE shall use
an evaluation period corresponding to the second mode for each BFD-RS
resource.

When the UE transitions from a first configuration of BFD resources to a
second configuration of BFD resources that is different from the first
configuration, for each BFD resource present in the second
configuration, for a duration of time equal to the evaluation period
corresponding to the second configuration after the transition occurs,
the UE shall use an evaluation period that is no less than the minimum
of evaluation periods corresponding to the first configuration and the
second configuration. Subsequent to this duration, the UE shall use an
evaluation period corresponding to the second configuration for each BFD
resource present in the second configuration.

When the UE transitions from a first configuration of active TCI state
of the CORESET to a second configuration of active TCI state of the
CORESET, for each CSI-RS for BFD present in the second configuration,
the UE shall use an evaluation period corresponding to the second
configuration from the time of transition.

8.5A Link Recovery Procedures when CCA is used on target frequency
------------------------------------------------------------------

### 8.5A.1 Introduction

The requirements for link recovery procedure in the clause apply when
CCA is used on a serving frequency on the downlink.

The UE shall assess the downlink radio link quality of a serving cell
based on the reference signal in the set ${\overline{q}}_{0}$ as
specified in TS 38.213 \[3\] in order to detect beam failure on:

\- PCell in SA operation mode,

\- PSCell in EN-DC operation mode.

The RS resource configurations in the set ${\overline{q}}_{0}$ can be
periodic SSBs. UE is not required to perform beam failure detection
outside the active DL BWP. UE is not required to meet the requirements
in clause 8.5A.2 and 8.5A.3 if UE does not have set
${\overline{q}}_{0}$.

On each RS resource configuration in the set ${\overline{q}}_{0}$, the
UE shall estimate the radio link quality and compare it to the threshold
Q~out\_LR,CCA~ for the purpose of accessing downlink radio link quality
of the serving cell beams.

The threshold Q~out\_LR,CCA~ is defined as the level at which the
downlink radio level link of a given resource configuration on set
${\overline{q}}_{0}$ cannot be reliably received and shall correspond to
the BLER~out,CCA~ = 10% block error rate of a hypothetical PDCCH
transmission. For SSB based beam failure detection, Q~out\_LR\_SSB,CCA~
is derived based on the hypothetical PDCCH transmission parameters
listed in Table 8.5A.2.1-1.

Upon request the UE shall deliver configuration indexes from the set
${\overline{q}}_{1}$ *as specified in TS 38.213 \[3\] , to higher
layers,* and the corresponding L1-RSRP measurement provided that the
measured L1-RSRP is equal to or better than the threshold Q~in\_LR,CCA~,
which is indicated by higher layer parameter *rsrp-ThresholdSSB*. The UE
applies the Q~in\_LR,CCA~ threshold to the L1-RSRP measurement obtained
from an SSB. The RS resource configurations in the set
${\overline{q}}_{1}$ can be periodic SSBs. UE is not required to perform
candidate beam detection outside the active DL BWP.

In the requirements of clause 8.5A, the term CBD-RS SSB occasions not
available at the UE refers to when the CBD-RS SSB is configured by gNB
in a cell on a carrier frequency subject to CCA, but the first two
successive candidate SSB positions for the same SSB index within the set
of configured CBD-RS resources are not available at the UE due to DL CCA
failures at gNB during the corresponding evaluation period; otherwise
the CBD-RS SSB is considered as available at the UE.

The requirements in clause 8.5A apply for any *channelAccessMode*
configuration \[TS 38.331, 2\].

### 8.5A.2 Requirements for SSB based beam failure detection

#### 8.5A.2.1 Introduction

The requirements in this clause apply for each SSB resource in the set
${\overline{q}}_{0}$ configured for a serving cell, provided that the
SSB configured for beam failure detection is actually transmitted within
the UE active DL BWP during the entire evaluation period specified in
clause 8.5A.2.2, but occasionally may not be transmitted due to CCA
operation.

Table 8.5A.2.1-1: PDCCH transmission parameters for beam failure
instance

  Attribute                                                          Value for BLER
  ------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------------
  DCI format                                                         1-0
  Number of control OFDM symbols                                     2
  Aggregation level (CCE)                                            8
  Ratio of hypothetical PDCCH RE energy to average SSS RE energy     0dB
  Ratio of hypothetical PDCCH DMRS energy to average SSS RE energy   0dB
  Bandwidth (PRBs)                                                   24
  Sub-carrier spacing (kHz)                                          Same as the SCS of RMSI CORESET
  DMRS precoder granularity                                          REG bundle size
  REG bundle size                                                    6
  CP length                                                          Normal
  Mapping from REG to CCE                                            Distributed

#### 8.5A.2.2 Minimum requirement

UE shall be able to evaluate whether the downlink radio link quality on
the configured BFD-RS SSB resource in set ${\overline{q}}_{0}$ estimated
over the last T~Evaluate\_BFD\_SSB\_CCA~ ms period becomes worse than
the threshold Q~out\_LR\_SSB,CCA~ within T~Evaluate\_BFD\_SSB\_CCA~ ms
period.

The value of T~Evaluate\_BFD\_SSB\_CCA~ is defined in Table 8.5A.2.2-1,
where

\- $P = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{\text{MRGP}}}$, when in the
monitored cell there are measurement gaps configured for
intra-frequency, inter-frequency or inter-RAT measurements, which are
overlapping with some but not all occasions of the BFD-RS SSB.

\- P=1 when in the monitored cell there are no measurement gaps
overlapping with any occasion of the BFD-RS SSB.

If the high layer in TS 38.331 \[2\] signaling of *smtc2* is configured,
T~SMTCperiod~ corresponds to the value of higher layer parameter
*smtc2*; Otherwise T~SMTCperiod~ corresponds to the value of higher
layer parameter *smtc1*.

Longer evaluation period would be expected if the combination of BFD-RS
SSB resource, SMTC occasion and measurement gap configurations does not
meet pervious conditions.

Table 8.5A.2.2-1: Evaluation period T~Evaluate\_BFD\_SSB\_CCA~

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Configuration        | T~Eval               |                      |
|                      | uate\_BFD\_SSB\_CCA~ |                      |
|                      | (ms)                 |                      |
+======================+======================+======================+
|                      | BFD-RS SSB Es/Iot    | BFD-RS SSB Es/Iot    |
|                      | ^Note2^ ≥ -7 dB      | ^Note2^ \< -7 dB     |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| no DRX               | Max(50, Ceil((10 ×   | Max(50, Ceil((12 ×   |
|                      | P) × T~SSB~))        | P) × T~SSB~))        |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| DRX cycle ≤ 320ms    | Max(50, Ceil(1.5 × 8 | Max(50, Ceil(1.5 ×   |
|                      | × P) ×               | 10 × P) ×            |
|                      | Max(T~DRX~,T~SSB~))  | Max(T~DRX~,T~SSB~))  |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| DRX cycle \> 320ms   | Ceil(7 × P) × T~DRX~ | Ceil(8 × P) × T~DRX~ |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Note 1: T~SSB~ is    |                      |                      |
| the periodicity of   |                      |                      |
| SSB in the set       |                      |                      |
| $                    |                      |                      |
| {\overline{q}}_{0}$. |                      |                      |
| T~DRX~ is the DRX    |                      |                      |
| cycle length.        |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| Note 2: BFD-RS SSB   |                      |                      |
| Es/Iot is the        |                      |                      |
| averaged BFD-RS SSB  |                      |                      |
| Es/Iot over the most |                      |                      |
| recent previous      |                      |                      |
| evaluation period.   |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

#### 8.5A.2.3 Measurement restriction for SSB based beam failure detection

The UE is required to be capable of measuring SSB for BFD without
measurement gaps. The UE is required to perform the SSB measurements
with measurement restrictions as described in the following clauses.

When the SSB for BFD measurement is in the same OFDM symbol as CSI-RS
for BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement,

\- If SSB and CSI-RS have same SCS, UE shall be able to measure the SSB
for BFD measurement without any restriction;

\- If SSB and CSI-RS have different SCS,

\- If UE supports *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology*, UE shall be
able to measure the SSB for BFD measurement without any restriction;

\- If UE does not support *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology*, UE is
required to measure SSB for BFD measurement.

### 8.5A.4 Minimum requirement for L1 indication

When the radio link quality on all the RS resources in set
${\overline{q}}_{0}$ is worse than Q~out\_LR,CCA~, layer 1 of the UE
shall send a beam failure instance indication to the higher layers.

The beam failure instance evaluation for the RS resources in set
${\overline{q}}_{0}$ shall be performed as specified in clause 6 in
TS 38.213 \[3\]. Two successive indications from layer 1 shall be
separated by at least T~Indication\_interval\_BFD\_CCA~.

When DRX is not used, T~Indication\_interval\_BFD\_CCA~ is max(2ms,
T~SSB-RS,M~) ), where T~SSB-RS,M~ is the shortest periodicity of all RS
resources in set ${\overline{q}}_{0}$ for the accessed cell,
corresponding to either the shortest periodicity of the SSB in the set
${\overline{q}}_{0}$ .

When DRX is used, for SSB based link quality measurement,

\- T~Indication\_interval\_BFD\_CCA~ = Max(1.5 × DRX\_cycle\_length, 1.5
× T~SSB-RS,M~), if DRX\_cycle\_length ≤ 320ms,

\- T~Indication\_interval\_BFD\_CCA~ = DRX\_cycle\_length, if
DRX\_cycle\_length \> 320ms.

### 8.5A.5 Requirements for SSB based candidate beam detection

#### 8.5A.5.1 Introduction

The requirements in this clause apply for each CBD-RS SSB resource in
the set ${\overline{q}}_{1}$ configured for a serving cell, provided
that the SSBs configured for candidate beam detection are actually
transmitted within UE active DL BWP during the entire evaluation period
specified in clause 8.5A.5.2, but occasionally may not be transmitted
due to CCA operation.

#### 8.5A.5.2 Minimum requirement

Upon request the UE shall be able to evaluate whether the L1-RSRP
measured on the configured CBD-RS SSB resource in set
![](media/image15.wmf){width="0.15in" height="0.21666666666666667in"}
estimated over the last T~Evaluate\_CBD\_SSB\_CCA~ ms period becomes
better than the threshold Q~in\_LR,CCA~ provided SSB\_RP and SSB Ês/Iot
are according to Annex Table B.2.4.1 for a corresponding band.

The UE shall monitor the configured SSB resources using the evaluation
period in table 8.5A.5.2-1 corresponding to the non-DRX mode, if the
configured DRX cycle ≤ 320ms.

The value of T~Evaluate\_CBD\_SSB\_CCA~ is defined in Table 8.5A.5.2-1,
where

\- $P = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{\text{MRGP}}}$, when in the
monitored cell there are measurement gaps configured for
intra-frequency, inter-frequency or inter-RAT measurements, which are
overlapping with some but not all occasions of the CBD-RS SSB,

\- P = 1 when in the monitored cell there are no measurement gaps
overlapping with any occasion of the CBD-RS SSB.

Table 8.5A.5.2-1: Evaluation period T~Evaluate\_CBD\_SSB\_CCA~

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Configuration                    | T~Evaluate\_CBD\_SSB\_CCA~ (ms)  |
+==================================+==================================+
| non-DRX, DRX cycle ≤ 320ms       | Max(25, Ceil((3 + L~CBD~) × P) × |
|                                  | T~SSB~)                          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle \> 320ms               | Ceil((3 + L~CBD~) × P) × T~DRX~  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Note 1: T~SSB~ is the            |                                  |
| periodicity of SSB in the set    |                                  |
| ${\overline{q}}_{1}$. T~DRX~ is  |                                  |
| the DRX cycle length.            |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Note 2: When DRX is not          |                                  |
| configured, L~CBD~ is the number |                                  |
| of CBD-RS SSB occasions not      |                                  |
| available at the UE during       |                                  |
| T~Evaluate\_CBD\_SSB\_CCA~ where |                                  |
| L~CBD~ ≤ L~CBD,max~. When DRX is |                                  |
| configured, L~CBD~ is the number |                                  |
| of DRX cycles in which at least  |                                  |
| one of the CBD-RS SSB occasions  |                                  |
| not available at the UE during   |                                  |
| T~Evaluate\_CBD\_SSB\_CCA~ where |                                  |
| L~CBD~ ≤ L~CBD,max~. The UE,     |                                  |
| which is configured with DRX, is |                                  |
| not required to determine the    |                                  |
| availability of SSB occasions    |                                  |
| more frequent than\              |                                  |
| Once per Max(25ms, P \* T~SSB~)  |                                  |
| if DRX cycle ≤ 320ms,\           |                                  |
| Once per P \* T~DRX~ if DRX      |                                  |
| cycle \> 320ms.                  |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Note 3: L~CBD,max~=7 for         |                                  |
| Max(T~DRX~, T~SSB~) ≤ 40         |                                  |
| assuming T~DRX~=0 for non-DRX,\  |                                  |
| L~CBD,max~=5 for 40 \<           |                                  |
| Max(T~DRX~, T~SSB~) ≤ 320,\      |                                  |
| L~CBD,max~=3 for T~DRX~ \> 320.  |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Note 4 If L~CBD~\>L~CBD,max~,    |                                  |
| the UE shall assume no new       |                                  |
| candidate beams are found for    |                                  |
| this evaluation period.          |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

#### 8.5A.5.3 Measurement restriction for SSB based candidate beam detection

When the SSB for CBD measurement is in the same OFDM symbol as CSI-RS
for BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement,

\- If SSB and CSI-RS have same SCS, UE shall be able to measure the SSB
for CBD measurement without any restrictions;

\- If SSB and CSI-RS have different SCS-es,

\- If UE supports *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology*, UE shall be
able to measure the SSB for CBD measurement without any restriction;

\- If UE does not support *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology*, UE is
required to measure SSB for CBD measurement.

### 8.5A.7 Scheduling availability of UE during beam failure detection

Scheduling availability restrictions when the UE is performing beam
failure detection are described in the following clauses.

#### 8.5A.7.1 Scheduling availability of UE performing beam failure detection with a same subcarrier spacing as PDSCH/PDCCH

In this clause, the same requirements apply as in Clause 8.5.7.1.

#### 8.5A.7.2 Scheduling availability of UE performing beam failure detection with a different subcarrier spacing than PDSCH/PDCCH

In this clause, the same requirements apply as in Clause 8.5.7.2.

### 8.5A.8 Scheduling availability of UE during candidate beam detection

Scheduling availability restrictions when the UE is performing L1-RSRP
measurement for candidate beam detection are described in the following
clauses.

#### 8.5A.8.1 Scheduling availability of UE performing L1-RSRP measurement with a same subcarrier spacing as PDSCH/PDCCH

In this clause, the same requirements apply as in Clause 8.5.8.1.

#### 8.5A.8.2 Scheduling availability of UE performing L1-RSRP measurement with a different subcarrier spacing than PDSCH/PDCCH

In this clause, the same requirements apply as in Clause 8.5.8.2.

8.6 Active BWP switch delay
---------------------------

### 8.6.1 Introduction

The requirements in this clause apply for a UE configured PCell or any
activated SCell in standalone NR or NE-DC, PCell, PSCell or any
activated SCell in MCG or SCG in NR-DC, or PSCell or any activated SCell
in SCG in EN-DC. The requirements in this clause also apply for a UE
configured with more than one BWP on PCell or any activated SCell with
CCA in standalone NR, or PSCell or any activated SCell with CCA in SCG
in EN-DC. The requirements in 8.6.4 apply for a UE which is capable of
*ul-LBT-FailureDetectionRecovery-r16* configured with more than one UL
BWP on PCell with CCA in standalone NR or PSCell with CCA in EN-DC.

UE shall complete the switch of active DL and/or UL BWP within the delay
defined in this clause.

### 8.6.2 DCI and timer based BWP switch delay on a single CC

The requirements in this clause only apply to the case that the BWP
switch is performed on a single CC with more than one BWP configurations
configured.

For DCI-based BWP switch, after the UE receives BWP switching request at
DL slot n on a serving cell, UE shall be able to receive PDSCH (for DL
active BWP switch) or transmit PUSCH (for UL active BWP switch) on the
new BWP on the serving cell on which BWP switch on the first DL or UL
slot occurs right after a time duration of T~BWPswitchDelay~ + Y which
starts from the beginning of DL slot n. Where,

\- Y=0, if the serving cell where UE receives DCI for BWP switch request
is same as the serving cell on which BWP switch occurs.

\- Y equals to the length of 1 slot, if the serving cell where UE
receives DCI for BWP switch is different from the serving cell on which
BWP switch occurs for any involved serving cell. In this scenario,
T~BWPswitchDelay~ + Y shall follow the smaller SCS of scheduling cell,
scheduled cells before and scheduled cells after active BWP change.

The UE is not required to transmit UL signals or receive DL signals
until the first DL or UL slot occurs right after a time duration of
T~BWPswitchDelay~ which starts from the beginning of DL slot n except
DCI triggering BWP switch on the cell where DCI-based BWP switch occurs.
The UE is not required to follow the requirements defined in this clause
when performing a DCI-based BWP switch between the BWPs in disjoint
channel bandwidths or in partially overlapping channel bandwidths.

For timer-based BWP switch, the UE shall start BWP switch at DL slot n,
where slot n is the first slot of a DL subframe (FR1) or DL
half-subframe (FR2) immediately after a BWP-inactivity timer
*bwp-InactivityTimer* \[2\] expires on a serving cell, and the UE shall
be able to receive PDSCH (for DL active BWP switch) or transmit PUSCH
(for UL active BWP switch) on the new BWP on the serving cell on which
BWP switch on the first DL or UL slot occurs right after a time duration
of T~BWPswitchDelay~ which starts from the beginning of DL slot n.

The UE is not required to transmit UL signals or receive DL signals
during time duration T~BWPswitchDelay~ after *bwp-InactivityTimer* \[2\]
expires on the cell where timer-based BWP switch occurs.

Depending on UE capability *bwp-SwitchingDelay* \[2\], UE shall finish
BWP switch within the time duration T~BWPswitchDelay~ defined in Table
8.6.2-1.

Table 8.6.2-1: BWP switch delay

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ![](media/i    | NR Slot length | BWP switch     |                |
| mage6.wmf){wid |                | delay          |                |
| th="0.15625in" |                | T~B            |                |
| hei            |                | WPswitchDelay~ |                |
| ght="0.1770833 |                | (slots)        |                |
| 3333333334in"} |                |                |                |
+================+================+================+================+
|                | (ms)           | Type           | Type           |
|                |                | 1^Note\ 1^     | 2^Note\ 1^     |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 0              | 1              | 1              | 3              |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 1              | 0.5            | 2              | 5              |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 2              | 0.25           | 3              | 9              |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 3              | 0.125          | 6              | 18             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Note 1:        |                |                |                |
| Depends on UE  |                |                |                |
| capability.    |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| Note 2: If the |                |                |                |
| BWP switch     |                |                |                |
| involves       |                |                |                |
| changing of    |                |                |                |
| SCS, the BWP   |                |                |                |
| switch delay   |                |                |                |
| is determined  |                |                |                |
| by the smaller |                |                |                |
| SCS between    |                |                |                |
| the SCS before |                |                |                |
| BWP switch and |                |                |                |
| the SCS after  |                |                |                |
| BWP switch.    |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

Provided the UE does not have the required TCI-state information to
receive PDCCH and PDSCH in the new BWP, the UE shall use old TCI-states
before the BWP switch until a new MAC CE updating the required TCI-state
information for PDCCH and PDSCH is received after the BWP switch.

If UE has the information on the required TCI-state information to
receive PDCCH and PDSCH in the new BWP,

\- UE shall be able to receive PDCCH and PDSCH with old TCI-states
before the delay as specified in Clause 8.10 in the new BWP.

\- UE shall be able to receive PDCCH and PDSCH with new TCI-states after
the delay as specified in Clause 8.10 in the new BWP.

If the BWP switch is triggered within or outside DRX active time, and
one of the two BWPs in a BWP switching is a dormant BWP \[TS 38.321,
7\], UE shall be able to complete active BWP switching within the time
duration of

\- T~dormantBWPswitchDelay~ =T~BWPswitchDelay~+ X, provided that the
dormancy indication is received in any of the first 3 OFDM symbols of a
slot in the serving cell where DCI for dormancy indication is receiveds,
or

\- T~dormantBWPswitchDelay~ =T~BWPswitchDelay~ + X + Z, provided that
the dormancy indication is received after the first 3 OFDM symbols of a
slot in the serving cell where DCI for dormancy indication is received,
where

\- T~BWPswitchDelay~ is defined in Table 8.6.2-1 corresponding to the
smallest value among the SCS of the serving cell where UE receives
dormancy indication and the SCSs of the dormant BWP and the active BWP
immediately before or after switching the BWP of the serving cell where
BWP switching occurs;

\- X equals to the length of 1 slot corresponding to the smallest value
among the SCS of the serving cell where UE receives dormancy indication
and the SCSs of the dormant BWP and the active BWP immediately before or
after switching the BWP of the serving cell where BWP switching occurs.

\- Z equals to the length of 1 slot corresponding to the SCS of the
serving cell where UE receives dormancy indication.

For DCI-based BWP switch, if the new BWP is a dormant BWP, after the UE
receives BWP switching request at DL slot n on a serving cell, UE shall
be able to receive CSI-RS (for DL active BWP switch) on the new BWP on
the serving cell on which BWP switch on the first DL slot occurs right
after a time duration of T~dormantBWPswitchDelay~ which starts from the
beginning of DL slot n.

### 8.6.2A DCI based BWP switch delay on multiple CCs

The requirements in this clause only apply to the case when the same
type of BWP switch (DCI based BWP switch) is performed on multiple CCs
simultaneously or over partially overlapping time period.

#### 8.6.2A.1 Simultaneous DCI based BWP switch delay on multiple CCs

The delay requirements for simultaneous DCI based BWP switch on multiple
CCs in this clause apply only if the timing difference among the first
symbol of slot carrying DCI for all CCs is received within the MRTD for
inter-band CA as defined in clause 7.6.4.

For DCI-based BWP switch on multiple CCs, after the UE receives BWP
switching request, UE shall be able to receive PDSCH (for DL active BWP
switch) or transmit PUSCH (for UL active BWP switch) on the new BWPs on
the serving cells on which BWP switch on the first DL or UL slot occurs
right after a time duration of T~MultipleBWPswitchDelay~ which starts
from the beginning of DL slot n, where slot n is slot which UE receives
the earliest BWP switching request among CCs on which UE is performing
simultaneous DCI-based BWP switching.

The UE is not required to transmit UL signals or receive DL signals
until the first DL or UL slot occurs right after a time duration of
T~MultipleBWPswitchDelay~ which starts from the beginning of DL slot n
except DCI triggering BWP switch on the cell where DCI-based BWP switch
occurs. The UE is not required to follow the requirements defined in
this clause when performing a DCI-based BWP switch between the BWPs in
disjoint channel bandwidths or in partially overlapping channel
bandwidths on any serving cell.

UE shall finish BWP switch within the time duration
T~MultipleBWPswitchDelay~ + Y ~­,~ which is defined as:

T~MultipleBWPswitchDelay~ = T~BWPswitchDelay~ + D\*(N-1)

Where:

\- T~BWPswitchDelay~ is the BWP switching delay on single CC defined in
Table 8.6.2-1 depending on UE capability *bwp-SwitchingDelay* \[2\].
T~BWPswitchDelay~ shall be based on the smallest SCS among SCS of all
involved CCs before and after BWP switch. If the BWP switch on multiple
CCs results in the change of the SCS on any CC among involved CCs,
T~BWPswitchDelay~ should be based on the smallest SCS among all SCS
values of all involved CCs.

\- D is the incremental delay for each additional CC involved in
simultaneous BWP switch and depends on UE capability
*bwp-SwitchingMultiCCs-r16* \[TS 38.306, 14\] for switching between
non-dormant BWPs, and *bwp-SwitchingMultiDormancyCCs-r16* for switching
between non-dormant and dormant BWPs.

\- For UE which is capable of per-FR gap, and no BWP switch involves SCS
change, N is the number of CCs in same FR; For UE which is not capable
of per-FR gap, or the BWP switches on any CC involves SCS changing, N is
the number of CCs undergoing simultaneous BWP switch.

-   Y=0, ­if the serving cell where UE receives DCI for BWP switch is
    > same as the serving cell on which BWP switch occurs for each
    > involved serving cell.

Y equals to the length of one slot at smaller SCS of scheduling cell,
scheduled cells before and scheduled cells after active BWP change,

\- if the serving cell where UE receives DCI for BWP switch is different
from the serving cell on which BWP switch occurs for any involved
serving cell.

Provided the UE does not have the required TCI-state information to
receive PDCCH and PDSCH in the new BWP, the UE shall use old TCI-states
before the BWP switch until a new MAC CE updating the required TCI-state
information for PDCCH and PDSCH is received after the BWP switch.

If UE has the information on the required TCI-state information to
receive PDCCH and PDSCH in the new BWP,

\- UE shall be able to receive PDCCH and PDSCH with old TCI-states
before the delay as specified in Clause 8.10 in the new BWP.

\- UE shall be able to receive PDCCH and PDSCH with new TCI-states after
the delay as specified in Clause 8.10 in the new BWP.

If the BWP switch is triggered on multiple CCs simultaneously within or
outside DRX active time, and one of the two BWPs on each CC in a BWP
switching is a dormant BWP \[TS 38.321, 7\], UE shall be able to
complete active BWP switching within the time duration of

\- T~DormantMultipleBWPswitchDelay~ = T~MultipleBWPswitchDelay~+X,
provided that the dormancy indication is received in any of the first 3
OFDM symbols of a slot in the serving cell where DCI for dormancy
indication is received, or

\- T~DormantMultipleBWPswitchDelay~ = T~MultipleBWPswitchDelay~ +X+Z,
provided that the dormancy indication is received after the first 3 OFDM
symbols of a slot in the serving cell where DCI for dormancy indication
is received, where

\- T~MultipleBWPswitchDelay~ is defined above corresponding to the
smallest value among the SCS of the serving cell where UE receives
dormancy indication and the SCSs of the dormant BWP and the active BWP
immediately before or after switching the BWP of the serving cell where
BWP switching occurs;

\- X equals to the length of 1 slot corresponding to the smallest value
among the SCS of the serving cell where UE receives dormancy indication
and the SCSs of the dormant BWP and the active BWP immediately before or
after switching the BWP of the serving cell where BWP switching occurs.

\- Z equals to the length of 1 slot corresponding to the SCS of the
serving cell where DCI for dormancy indication is received.

The number of CCs, N, on which the UE can simultaneously switch BWPs
while still meeting the requirements, if any, related to allocations on
downlink, uplink, or transmission of HARQ-ACK, depends on the UE
reported capabilities related to BWP switching, the network
configuration and the BWP switch method.

#### 8.6.2A.2 Non-simultaneous DCI based BWP switch delay on multiple CCs

In non-simultaneous case, the DCI-based BWP switch on multiple CCs is
triggered over partially overlapping time period between CCs or multiple
CCs in different Cell groups. The delay requirements for
non-simultaneous DCI based BWP switch on multiple CCs in this clause
apply only if:

\- the timing difference among the first symbol of slot carrying DCI for
all CCs involved in non-simultaneous BWP switch is received exceeds the
MRTD for inter-band CA as defined in clause 7.6.4, and

\- UE is operating in NR-DC (FR1+FR2), and

\- UE is capable of per-FR gap, and

\- BWP switch does not involve SCS change

For non-simultaneous DCI based BWP switch on multiple CCs, BWP switching
delay requirements defined in clause 8.6.2 apply when BWP switching
occurs on single CC in the cell group. BWP switching delay requirements
defined in clause 8.6.2A.1 apply when simultaneous BWP switching occurs
on multiple CCs in the cell group.

### 8.6.2B Timer based BWP switch delay on multiple CCs

The requirements in this clause only apply to the case when the same
type of BWP switch (timer based BWP switch) is performed on multiple CCs
simultaneously or over partially overlapping time period.

#### 8.6.2B.1 Simultaneous timer based BWP switch delay on multiple CCs

The delay requirements for simultaneous timer based BWP switch on
multiple CCs in this clause apply only if the timing difference among
the beginning of the slot where timer based BWP switching starts for all
CCs is within the MRTD for inter-band CA as defined in clause 7.6.4.

For timer-based BWP switch on multiple CCs, UE shall start BWP switch at
DL slot n, where slot n is the first slot of a DL subframe (in FR1) or
DL half-subframe ((in FR2) immediately after the earliest BWP-inactivity
timer *bwp-InactivityTimer* \[2\] expiration occurs on multiple serving
cells, and the UE shall be able to receive PDSCH (for DL active BWP
switch) or transmit PUSCH (for UL active BWP switch) on the new BWPs on
the serving cells on which BWP switch on the first DL or UL slot occurs
right after a time duration of T~MultipleBWPswitchDelay~ which starts
from the beginning of DL slot n, where T~MultipleBWPswitchDelay~ is
defined in 8.6.2A.1.

The UE is not required to transmit UL signals or receive DL signals
during time duration T~MultipleBWPswitchDelay~ after
*bwp-InactivityTimer* \[2\] expires on the cell where timer-based BWP
switch occurs.

Provided the UE does not have the required TCI-state information to
receive PDCCH and PDSCH in the new BWP, the UE shall use old TCI-states
before the BWP switch until a new MAC CE updating the required TCI-state
information for PDCCH and PDSCH is received after the BWP switch.

If UE has the information on the required TCI-state information to
receive PDCCH and PDSCH in the new BWP,

\- UE shall be able to receive PDCCH and PDSCH with old TCI-states
before the delay as specified in Clause 8.10 in the new BWP.

\- UE shall be able to receive PDCCH and PDSCH with new TCI-states after
the delay as specified in Clause 8.10 in the new BWP.

#### 8.6.2B.2 Non-simultaneous timer based BWP switch delay on multiple CCs

In non-simultaneous case, the timer-based BWP switch on multiple CCs is
triggered over partially overlapping time period.

The delay requirements for non-simultaneous timer based BWP switch on
multiple CCs in this clause apply if the timing difference among the
beginning of the slot where timer based BWP switching starts for all CCs
is exceeds the MRTD for inter-band CA as defined in clause 7.6.4, and
the BWP switch does not involve SCS change. The UE performs the
non-simultaneous timer-based BWP switch on the CCs sequentially.

For non-simultaneous timer-based BWP switch, the UE shall be able to
receive PDSCH (for DL active BWP switch) or transmit PUSCH (for UL
active BWP switch) on the new BWP on the serving cell on which BWP
switch on the first DL or UL slot occurs right after a time duration of
T~MultipleBWPswitchDelayTotal~ which starts from the beginning of DL
slot n, where slot n is the first slot of a DL subframe (in FR1) or DL
half-subframe (in FR2) immediately after the earliest BWP-inactivity
timer *bwp-InactivityTimer* \[2\] expires.

**T**~MultipleBWPswitchDelayTotal~ **= T~Delay~ +
T**~MultipleBWPswitchDelay~

Where:

**T~Delay~ is the time required to complete the ongoing timer-based BWP
switching on other CCs.**

**T**~MultipleBWPswitchDelay~ **is the timer-based BWP switch delay on
current single CC defined in clause 8.6.2 or simultaneously triggered on
multiple CCs defined in clause 8.6.2B.1.**

The UE is not required to transmit UL signals or receive DL signals
during time duration T~MultipleBWPswitchDelayTotal~ after
*bwp-InactivityTimer* \[2\] expires on the cell where timer-based BWP
switch occurs.

Provided the UE does not have the required TCI-state information to
receive PDCCH and PDSCH in the new BWP, the UE shall use old TCI-states
before the BWP switch until a new MAC CE updating the required TCI-state
information for PDCCH and PDSCH is received after the BWP switch.

If UE has the information on the required TCI-state information to
receive PDCCH and PDSCH in the new BWP,

\- UE shall be able to receive PDCCH and PDSCH with old TCI-states
before the delay as specified in Clause 8.10 in the new BWP.

\- UE shall be able to receive PDCCH and PDSCH with new TCI-states after
the delay as specified in Clause 8.10 in the new BWP.

### 8.6.3 RRC based BWP switch delay on a single CC

The requirements in this clause only apply to the case that the BWP
switch is performed on a single CC with one or more than one BWP
configuration(s) configured, with

-   Active BWP switch or parameter change of its active BWPs for SpCell

-   Parameter change of its active BWPs except parameter
    > *firstActiveDownlinkBWP-Id* and *firstActiveUplinkBWP-Id* for
    > SCell

For RRC-based BWP switch, after the UE receives RRC reconfiguration
involving active BWP switching or parameter change of its active BWP, UE
shall be able to receive PDSCH/PDCCH (for DL active BWP switch) or
transmit PUSCH (for UL active BWP switch) on the new BWP on the serving
cell on which BWP switch occurs on the first DL or UL slot right after a
time duration of
$\frac{{T_{\text{RRCprocessingDelay}} + T}_{\text{BWPswitchDelayRRC}}}{\text{NR\ Slot\ length}}$
slots which begins from the beginning of DL slot n, where

DL slot n is the last slot overlapping with the PDSCH containing the RRC
command, and

$\text{NR\ Slot\ length}$ is determined by the smaller SCS between the
SCS before BWP switch and the SCS after BWP switch if the BWP switch
involves changing of SCS.

$T_{\text{RRCprocessingDelay}}$ is the length of the RRC procedure delay
in ms as defined in clause 11.2 in TS 36.331 \[16\] if the corresponding
RRC message is embedded in E-UTRA RRC message, otherwise it is the
length of the RRC procedure delay in ms as defined in clause 12 in TS
38.331 \[2\], and

$T_{\text{BWPswitchDelayRRC}} = 6ms$ is the time used by the UE to
perform BWP switch.

The UE is not required to transmit UL signals or receive DL signals
during the time defined by
${T_{\text{RRCprocessingDelay}} + T}_{\text{BWPswitchDelayRRC}}$ on the
cell where RRC-based BWP switch occurs. When
${T_{\text{HARQ}} > \ T}_{\text{RRCprocessingDelay}}$ a longer switching
delay is allowed. Where $T_{\text{HARQ}}$ is the time between DL data
transmission and acknowledgement as specified in TS 38.213 \[3\].

### 8.6.3A RRC based BWP switch delay on multiple CCs

The requirements in this clause only apply to the case when the same
type of BWP switch (RRC based BWP switch) is performed on multiple CCs
simultaneously or over partially overlapping time period.

The requirements in this clause shall apply:

-   Active BWP switching or parameter change of its active BWPs for
    > SpCell

-   Parameter change of its active BWPs except parameter
    > *firstActiveDownlinkBWP-Id* and *firstActiveUplinkBWP-Id* for
    > SCells

#### 8.6.3A.1 Simultaneous RRC based BWP switch delay on multiple CCs

Requirements in this clause apply only if RRC based BWP switching on
multiple CCs for NR-CA is triggered by a single RRC command.

For RRC-based BWP switch, after the UE receives RRC reconfiguration
involving active BWP switching or parameter change of its active BWPs,
UE shall be able to receive PDSCH/PDCCH (for DL active BWP switch) or
transmit PUSCH (for UL active BWP switch) on the new BWPs on the serving
cells on which BWP switch occurs on the first DL or UL slot right after
a time duration of
$\frac{{T_{\text{RRCprocessingDelay}} + T}_{\text{BWPswitchDelayRRC}} + D_{\text{RRC}}*(N - 1)}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$slots
which begins from the beginning of DL slot n, where

DL slot n is the last slot overlapping with the PDSCH containing the RRC
command, and

$T_{\text{RRCprocessingDelay}}\text{\ and\ }T_{\text{BWPswitchDelayRRC}}\ $are
defined in clause 8.6.3, and

$D_{\text{RRC}} = 0$ for UE which is capable of type 1 BWP switching
delay depending on UE capability *bwp-SwitchingDelay* \[2\].
$D_{\text{RRC}} = D$ for UE which is capable of type 2 BWP switching
delay depending on UE capability *bwp-SwitchingDelay* \[2\], where D is
the incremental delay for each additional CC involved in simultaneous
BWP switch and depends on UE capability \[TS 38.306, 14\].

N is the number of CCs within the NR-CA configured for performing
simultaneous BWP switch.

The UE is not required to transmit UL signals or receive DL signals
during the time defined by
${T_{\text{RRCprocessingDelay}} + T}_{\text{BWPswitchDelayRRC}} + D_{\text{RRC}}*(N - 1)$
on the cells where RRC-based BWP switch occurs.

#### 8.6.3A.2 Non-simultaneous RRC based BWP switch delay on multiple CCs

In non-simultaneous case, the RRC-based BWP switch on multiple CCs is
triggered over partially overlapping time period in different Cell
groups. The delay requirements in this clause apply only if:

BWP switching on multiple CCs in different cell groups are triggered by
separate RRC commands, and

UE is operating in NR-DC (FR1+FR2), and

UE is capable of per-FR gap, and

BWP switch does not involve SCS change.

For non-simultaneous RRC-based BWP switch, after the UE receives RRC
reconfiguration involving active BWP switching or parameter change of
its active BWPs, UE shall be able to receive PDSCH/PDCCH (for DL active
BWP switch) or transmit PUSCH (for UL active BWP switch) on the new BWPs
on the serving cells on which BWP switch occurs on the first DL or UL
slot right after a time duration of
$\frac{{{T_{\text{Waiting}} + T}_{\text{RRCprocessingDelay}} + T}_{\text{BWPswitchDelayRRC}} + D_{\text{RRC}}*(M - 1)}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$
slots which begins from the beginning of DL slot n, where

DL slot n is the last slot containing the RRC command,

$T_{\text{Waiting}}$ is the waiting time for RRC based BWP switch which
is upper bounded by the ongoing BWP switch time in the first CG defined
in clause 8.6.3A.1,

*M* is the number of CCs within the NR-CA configured for performing
simultaneous BWP switch in the second CG; M=1 if the BWP switch is
performed on single CC,

$T_{\text{RRCprocessingDelay}}$ and $T_{\text{BWPswitchDelayRRC}}$ are
defined in clause 8.6.3, and

$D_{\text{RRC}}$ is defined in clause 8.6.3A.1.

The UE is not required to transmit UL signals or receive DL signals
during the time defined by
${T_{\text{RRCprocessingDelay}} + T}_{\text{BWPswitchDelayRRC\ \ }} + D_{\text{RRC}}*(M - 1)$
on the cells in the second CG where RRC-based BWP switch occurs.

### 8.6.4 BWP switch delay on Consistent UL CCA recovery

*Upon detection of consistent UL CCA failure is slot\#n in SpCell* *when
UE detects lbt-FailureInstanceMaxCount number of CCA failure within
lbt-FailureDetectionTimer*, the UE shall switch the active UL BWP to an
UL BWP configured with PRACH occasion and for which consistent CCA
failure has not been triggered as defined in TS 38.321 clause 5.21
\[7\]. The UE shall be ready to transmit PRACH on the new UL BWP of the
SpCell on the first UL slot occurs right after slot n+T~BWPswitchDelay~
+1, where T~BWPswitchDelay~ is defined in Table 8.6.2-1. The UE shall
finish the UL BWP switch within the time duration T~BWPswitchDelay~
depending on UE capability *bwp-SwitchingDelay* \[2\].

Note: Additional delay in acquiring the first available RACH occasion
will be derived in a way similar to that in handover in clause 6.1B.1.

The UE is not required to transmit UL signals or receive DL signals
during time duration T~BWPswitchDelay~ on the SpCell in the UL BWP
switch. The UE is not required to follow the requirements defined in
this clause when performing a UL BWP switch between the UL BWPs in
disjoint channel bandwidths or in partially overlapping channel
bandwidths.

8.7 Void
--------

8.8 NE-DC: E-UTRAN PSCell Addition and Release Delay
----------------------------------------------------

### 8.8.1 Introduction

This clause defines requirements for the delay within which the UE shall
be able to configure an E-UTRAN PSCell in NR - E-UTRA dual connectivity.
The requirements are applicable to an NR - E-UTRA dual connectivity
capable UE.

### 8.8.2 E-UTRAN PSCell Addition Delay Requirement

The requirements in this clause shall apply for the UE, which is
configured with PCell, and may also be configured with one or more
SCells.

Upon receiving E-UTRAN PSCell addition in subframe *n*, the UE shall be
capable to transmit PRACH preamble towards E-UTRAN PSCell no later than
in subframe *n* + T~config\_EUTRAN-PSCell~:

Where:

T~config\_EUTRAN-PSCell~ = T~RRC\_delay~ + T~activation\_time~ + 50ms +
T~E-UTRAN-PSCell\_\ DU~

T~RRC\_delay~ is the RRC procedure delay as specified in TS 38.331
\[2\].

T~activation\_time~ is the E-UTRAN PSCell activation delay. If the
E-UTRAN PSCell is known, then T~activation\_time~ is 20ms. If the
E-UTRAN PSCell is unknown, then T~activation\_time~ is 30ms provided the
E-UTRAN PSCell can be successfully detected on the first attempt.

T~E-UTRAN-PSCell\_DU~ is the delay uncertainty in acquiring the first
available PRACH occasion in the E-UTRAN PSCell. T~E-UTRAN-PSCell\_DU~ is
up to 30ms.

E-UTRAN PSCell is known if it has been meeting the following conditions:

\- During the last 5 seconds before the reception of the E-UTRAN PSCell
configuration command:

\- the UE has sent a valid measurement report for the E-UTRAN PSCell
being configured and

\- the E-UTRAN PSCell being configured remains detectable according to
the cell identification conditions specified in clause 8.8 of
TS 36.133 \[15\],

\- E-UTRAN PSCell being configured also remains detectable during the
E-UTRAN PSCell configuration delay T~config\_EUTRAN-PSCell~ according to
the cell identification conditions specified in clause 8.8 of
TS 36.133 \[15\].

otherwise it is unknown.

The PCell interruption specified in clause 8.2 is allowed only during
the RRC reconfiguration procedure \[2\].

### 8.8.3 E-UTRAN PSCell Release Delay Requirement

The requirements in this clause shall apply for a UE which is configured
with PCell and E-UTRAN PSCell and may also be configured with one or
more SCells and/or E-UTRAN SCells.

Upon receiving E-UTRAN PSCell release in subframe *n*, the UE shall
accomplish the release actions specified in TS 38.331 \[2\] no later
than in subframe *n+*T~RRC\_delay~:

Where

T~RRC\_delay~ is the RRC procedure delay as specified in TS 38.331
\[2\].

The PCell interruption specified in clause 8.2 is allowed only during
the RRC reconfiguration procedure \[2\].

8.9 NR-DC: PSCell Addition and Release Delay 
--------------------------------------------

### 8.9.1 Introduction

This clause defines requirements for the delay within which the UE shall
be able to configure an PSCell in NR dual connectivity. The requirements
are applicable to an NR dual connectivity capable UE.

### 8.9.2 PSCell Addition Delay Requirement

The requirements in this clause shall apply for the UE configured with
only PCell in FR1.

Upon receiving PSCell addition in subframe *n*, the UE shall be capable
to transmit PRACH preamble towards PSCell in FR2 no later than in slot
$n + \frac{T_{config\_ PSCell}}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$:

where:

T~config\_PSCell~ = T~RRC\_delay~ + T~processing~ + T~search~ + T~∆~ +
T~PSCell\_\ DU~ + 2 ms

T~RRC\_delay~ is the RRC procedure delay as specified in
TS 38.331 \[2\].

T~processing~ is the SW processing time needed by UE, including RF warm
up period. T~processing~ = 40 ms.

T~search~ is the time for AGC settling and PSS/SSS detection. If the
target cell is known, T~search~ = 0 ms. If the target cell is unknown
and the target cell Ês/Iot ≥ -2dB, T~search~ = 24\* Trs ms.

T~∆~ is time for fine time tracking and acquiring full timing
information of the target cell. T~∆~ = 1\*Trs ms for a known or unknown
PSCell.

T~PSCell\_\ DU~ is the delay uncertainty in acquiring the first
available PRACH occasion in the PSCell. T~PSCell\_\ DU~ is up to the
summation of SSB to PRACH occasion association period and 10 ms. SSB to
PRACH occasion associated period is defined in Table 8.1-1 of TS 38.213
\[3\].

Trs is the SMTC periodicity of the target cell if the UE has been
provided with an SMTC configuration for the target cell in PSCell
addition message, otherwise Trs is the SMTC configured in the
measObjectNR having the same SSB frequency and subcarrier spacing. If
the UE is not provided SMTC configuration or measurement object on this
frequency, the requirement in this clause is applied with Trs = 5 ms
assuming the SSB transmission periodicity is 5 ms. There is no
requirement if the SSB transmission periodicity is not 5 ms.

In FR1 and FR2, the PSCell is known if it has been meeting the following
conditions:

\- During the last 5 seconds before the reception of the PSCell
configuration command:

\- the UE has sent a valid measurement report for the PSCell being
configured and

\- One of the SSBs measured from the PSCell being configured remains
detectable according to the cell identification conditions specified in
clause 9.3.

> \- One of the SSBs measured from PSCell being configured also remains
> detectable during the PSCell configuration delay T~config\_PSCell~
> according to the cell identification conditions specified in clause
> 9.3.

otherwise it is unknown.

The PCell interruption specified in clause 8.2 is allowed only during
the RRC reconfiguration procedure \[2\].

### 8.9.3 PSCell Release Delay Requirement

The requirements in this clause shall apply for a UE which is configured
with PCell and one PSCell.

Upon receiving PSCell release in subframe *n*, the UE shall accomplish
the release actions specified in TS 38.331 \[2\] no later than in slot
$n + \frac{T_{RRC\_ delay}}{\text{NR\ slot\ length}}$:

where

T~RRC\_delay~ is the RRC procedure delay as specified in
TS 38.331 \[2\].

The PCell interruption specified in clause 8.2 is allowed only during
the RRC reconfiguration procedure \[2\].

8.10 Active TCI state switching delay
-------------------------------------

8.10.1 Introduction

The requirements in this clause apply for a UE configured with one or
more TCI state configurations on serving cell in MR-DC or standalone NR.
UE shall complete the switch of active TCI state within the delay
defined in this clause.

8.10.2 Known conditions for TCI state

The TCI state is known if the following conditions are met:

\- During the period from the last transmission of the RS resource used
for the L1-RSRP measurement reporting for the target TCI state to the
completion of active TCI state switch, where the RS resource for L1-RSRP
measurement is the RS in target TCI state or QCLed to the target TCI
state

\- TCI state switch command is received within 1280 ms upon the last
transmission of the RS resource for beam reporting or measurement

\- The UE has sent at least 1 L1-RSRP report for the target TCI state
before the TCI state switch command

\- The TCI state remains detectable during the TCI state switching
period

\- The SSB associated with the TCI state remain detectable during the
TCI switching period

\- SNR of the TCI state ≥ -3dB

Otherwise, the TCI state is unknown.

8.10.3 MAC-CE based TCI state switch delay

If the target TCI state is known, upon receiving PDSCH carrying MAC-CE
activation command in slot n, UE shall be able to receive PDCCH with
target TCI state of the serving cell on which TCI state switch occurs at
the first slot that is after slot n+ T~HARQ~ +
${3N}_{\text{slot}}^{subframe,µ}$+ TO~k~\*(T~first-SSB~ + T~SSB-proc~) /
*NR slot length*. The UE shall be able to receive PDCCH with the old TCI
state until slot n+ T~HARQ~ + ${3N}_{\text{slot}}^{subframe,µ}$ .Where
T~HARQ~ is the timing between DL data transmission and acknowledgement
as specified in TS 38.213 \[3\];

\- T~first-SSB~ is time to first SSB transmission after MAC CE command
is decoded by the UE; The SSB shall be the QCL-TypeA or QCL-TypeC to
target TCI state

\- T~SSB-proc~ = 2 ms;

\- TO~k~ = 1 if target TCI state is not in the active TCI state list for
PDSCH, 0 otherwise.

If the target TCI state is unknown, upon receiving PDSCH carrying MAC-CE
activation command in slot n, UE shall be able to receive PDCCH with
target TCI state of the serving cell on which TCI state switch occurs at
the first slot that is after slot n+ T~HARQ~
+${3N}_{\text{slot}}^{subframe,µ}$ + T~L1-RSRP~ +TO~uk~\*(T~first-SSB~+
T~SSB-proc~) / *NR slot length*. The UE shall be able to receive PDCCH
with the old TCI state until slot n+ T~HARQ~ +
${3N}_{\text{slot}}^{subframe,µ}$ .

Where

\- T ~L1-RSRP~ = 0 in FR1 or when the TCI state switching not involving
QCL-TypeD in FR2. Otherwise,

\- T ~L1-RSRP~ is the time for Rx beam refinement in FR2, defined as

\- T~L1-RSPR\_Measurement\_Period\_SSB~ for SSB as specified in clause
9.5.4.1,

\- with the assumption of M=1

\- with T~Report~ = 0

\- T~L1-RSRP\_Measurement\_Period\_CSI-RS~ for CSI-RS as specified in
clause 9.5.4.2

\- configured with higher layer parameter *repetition* set to ON

\- with the assumption of M=1 for periodic CSI-RS

\- for aperiodic CSI-RS if number of resources in resource set at least
equal to *MaxNumberRxBeam*

\- with T~Report~ = 0

\- TO~uk~ = 1 for CSI-RS based L1-RSRP measurement, and 0 for SSB based
L1-RSRP measurement when TCI state switching involves QCL-TypeD

\- TO~uk~ = 1 when TCI state switching involves other QCL types only

\- T~first-SSB~ is time to first SSB transmission after L1-RSRP
measurement when TCI state switching involves QCL-TypeD;

\- T~first-SSB~ is time to first SSB transmission after MAC CE command
is decoded by the UE for other QCL types;

\- The SSB shall be the QCL-TypeA or QCL-TypeC to target TCI state

### 8.10.4 DCI based TCI state switch delay

If the target TCI state is known, when a UE is configured with the
higher layer parameter *tci-PresentInDCI* which is set as \'enabled\'
for the CORESET scheduling PDSCH at slot n, UE shall be able to receive
PDSCH with target TCI state of the serving cell on which TCI state
switch occurs at the first slot that is after slot
n+*timeDurationForQCL*, where, *timeDurationForQCL* is the time required
by the UE to perform PDCCH reception and applying spatial QCL
information received in DCI for PDSCH processing as described in TS
38.214 \[26\], the value of *timeDurationForQCL* is defined in TS 38.331
\[2\].

The known condition for TCI state defined in clause 8.10.2 is applied.

### 8.10.5 RRC based TCI state switch delay

If the target TCI state is known, UE shall be able to receive PDCCH with
target TCI state of the serving cell on which TCI state switch occurs at
the first slot that is after slot n+ (T~RRC\_processing~
+TO~k~\*(T~first-SSB~ + T~SSB-proc~)) / *NR slot length*, The UE is not
required to receive PDCCH/PDSCH/CSI-RS or transmit PUCCH/PUSCH until the
end of switching period.

Where

\- Slot n is the last slot overlapping with the PDSCH carrying RRC
activation command.

\- T~RRC\_processing~ is the RRC processing delay defined in Clause 11.2
of TS 36.331 \[16\] if the corresponding RRC message is embedded in
E-UTRA RRC message, otherwise it is the RRC processing delay defined in
Clause 12 of TS 38.331 \[2\].

\- T~first-SSB~ is time to first SSB transmission after RRC processing
by the UE; The SSB shall be the QCL-TypeA or QCL-TypeC to target TCI
state.

\- T~SSB-proc~ and TO~k~ are defined in clause 8.10.3.

If the target TCI state is unknown, UE shall be able to receive PDCCH
with target TCI state of the serving cell on which TCI state switch
occurs at the first slot that is after slot n+ (T~RRC\_processing~
+T~L1-RSRP~ +TO~uk~\*(T~first-SSB~ + T~SSB-proc~)) / *NR slot length*,
The UE is not required to receive PDCCH/PDSCH/CSI-RS or transmit
PUCCH/PUSCH until the end of switching period.

Where

\- Slot n is the last slot overlapping with the PDSCH carrying RRC
activation command.

\- T~RRC\_processing~ is the RRC processing delay defined in Clause 11.2
of TS 36.331 \[16\] if the corresponding RRC message is embedded in
E-UTRA RRC message, otherwise it is the RRC processing delay defined in
Clause 12 of TS 38.331 \[2\].

\- T~first-SSB~ is time to first SSB transmission after L1-RSRP
measurement when TCI state switching involves QCL-TypeD;

\- T~first-SSB~ is time to first SSB transmission after RRC processing
time at the UE for other QCL types;

\- The SSB shall be the QCL-TypeA or QCL-TypeC to target TCI state

\- T~L1-RSRP~, TO~uk~ and T~SSB-proc~ are defined in clause 8.10.3.

The requirements for RRC based TCI state switch delay apply when only 1
TCI state is configured in RRC TCI state list. When
${T_{\text{HARQ}} > \ T}_{RRC\_ processing}$ a longer switching delay is
allowed. Where $T_{\text{HARQ}}$ is the time between DL data
transmission and acknowledgement as specified in TS 38.213 \[3\].

### 8.10.6 Active TCI state list update delay

If the target TCI state is known, upon receiving PDSCH carrying MAC-CE
active TCI state list update at slot n, UE shall be able to receive
PDCCH to schedule PDSCH with the new target TCI state at the first slot
that is after n+ T~HARQ~ +${3N}_{\text{slot}}^{subframe,µ}$
+TO~k~\*(T~first-SSB~ + T~SSB-proc~) / *NR slot length*. Where T~HARQ~,
T~first-SSB,~ T~SSB-proc~ and TO~k~ are defined in clause 8.10.3.

8.10A Active TCI state switching delay with CCA
-----------------------------------------------

### 8.10A.1 Introduction

The requirements in this clause apply for a UE configured with one or
more TCI state configurations on serving cell in EN-DC with PSCell on a
carrier frequency with CCA or SA NR with PCell on a carrier frequency
with CCA. UE shall complete the switch of active TCI state within the
delay defined in this clause.

In the requirements of clause 8.10A, the term SSB occasion not available
at the UE refers to when the SSB is configured by gNB in a cell on a
carrier frequency subject to CCA, but the first two successive candidate
SSB positions for the same SSB index within the discovery burst
transmission window are not available at the UE due to DL CCA failures
at gNB during the corresponding period; otherwise the SSB occasion is
considered as available at the UE.

### 8.10A.2 Known conditions for TCI state

The TCI state is known if the following conditions are met:

\- During the period from the last transmission of the RS resource used
for the L1-RSRP measurement reporting for the target TCI state to the
completion of active TCI state switch, where the RS resource for L1-RSRP
measurement is the RS in target TCI state or QCLed to the target TCI
state

\- TCI state switch command is received within 1280 ms of the last
transmission of the RS resource for beam reporting or measurement

\- The UE has sent at least 1 L1-RSRP report for the target TCI state
before the TCI state switch command

\- The TCI state remain detectable during the TCI state switching period
in the SSB occasions available at the UE

\- The SSB associated with the TCI state remain detectable during the
TCI switching period in the SSB occasions available at the UE

\- SNR of the TCI state is ≥ -3dB

Otherwise, the TCI state is unknown.

### 8.10A.3 MAC-CE based TCI state switch delay

If the target TCI state is known, upon receiving PDSCH carrying MAC-CE
activation command at slot n, UE shall be able to receive PDCCH with
target TCI state of the serving cell on which TCI state switch occurs at
the first slot that is after slot n+$\ {3N}_{\text{slot}}^{subframe,µ}$
+(T~HARQ~ +TO~k~\*(T~first-SSB~ + T~SSB-proc~+T~SSB~\*L~MAC,known~))
*/NR slot length*. The UE shall be able to receive on the old TCI state
until slot n +$\ {3N}_{\text{slot}}^{subframe,µ}$ + (T~HARQ~
+TO~k~\*(T~first-SSB~+ T~SSB~\*L~MAC,known~)) / *NR slot length*, where

T~HARQ~ (in ms) is the timing between DL data transmission and
acknowledgement as specified in TS 38.213 \[3\]. In the event of UE not
being able to transmit the acknowledgment due to UL CCA failures:
T~HARQ~ is extended to also include the time to all next HARQ feedback
transmissions and retransmission opportunities, until the time of its
successful transmission, as specified in TS 38.213 \[3\]; no extension
of T~HARQ~ due to UL CCA failures is allowed for Type 2C UL channel
access in TS 37.213;

T~first-SSB~ is time to first SSB transmission occasion after MAC CE
command is decoded by the UE, during which some SSB occasions may not be
available at the UE due to DL CCA failures;

The SSB shall be the QCL-TypeA or QCL-TypeC to target TCI state;

T~SSB-proc~ = 2 ms;

TO~k~ = 1 if target TCI state is not in the active TCI state list for
PDSCH, 0 otherwise;

T~SSB~ = ssb-periodicityServingCell;

L~MAC,known~≤ L~MAC,known,max~ is the corresponding number of SSB
occasions not available at the UE;

L~MAC,known,max~ =2 for T~SSB~≤40 ms, L~MAC,known,max~ =1 for T~SSB~\>40
ms.

If the target TCI state is unknown, upon receiving PDSCH carrying MAC-CE
activation command at slot n, UE shall be able to receive PDCCH with
target TCI state of the serving cell on which TCI state switch occurs at
the first slot that is after slot n+$\ {3N}_{\text{slot}}^{subframe,µ}$
+ (T~HARQ~ +TO~uk~\*(T~first-SSB~+ T~SSB-proc~+T~SSB~\*L~MAC,unknown~))
/ *NR slot length* . The UE shall be able to receive on the old TCI
state until slot n+$\ {3N}_{\text{slot}}^{subframe,µ}$ +
(T~HARQ~+TO~uk~\*(T~first-SSB~+ T~SSB~\*L~MAC,unknown~)) / *NR slot
length*, where:

L~MAC,unknown~≤L~MAC,unknown,max~ is the corresponding number of SSB
occasions not available at the UE;

L~MAC,unknown,max~ = 2 for T~SSB~≤40 ms, L~MAC,unknown,max~ = 1 for
T~SSB~\>40 ms;

TO~uk~ = 1.

### 8.10A.4 DCI based TCI state switch delay

If the target TCI state is known, when a UE is configured with the
higher layer parameter *tci-PresentInDCI* which is set as \'enabled\'
for the CORESET scheduling the PDSCH at slot n, UE shall be able to
receive PDSCH with target TCI state of the serving cell on which TCI
state switch occurs at the first slot that is after slot
n+*timeDurationForQCL*, where, *timeDurationForQCL* is the time required
by the UE to perform PDCCH reception and applying spatial QCL
information received in DCI for PDSCH processing as described in TS
38.214 \[26\], the value of *timeDurationForQCL* is defined in TS
38.306 \[14\].

The known condition for TCI state defined in clause 8.10A.2 is applied.

### 8.10A.5 RRC based TCI state switch delay

If the target TCI state is known, UE shall be able to receive PDCCH with
target TCI state of the serving cell on which TCI state switch occurs at
the first slot that is after slot n+ (T~RRC\_processing~
+TO~k~\*(T~first-SSB~ + T~SSB-proc~+ T~SSB~\*L~RRC,known~)) / *NR slot
length.* The UE is not required to receive PDCCH/PDSCH/CSI-RS or
transmit PUCCH/PUSCH until the end of switching period.

Where

\- Slot n is last slot overlapping with the PDSCH carrying RRC
activation command.

\- T~RRC\_processing~ is the RRC processing delay defined in Clause 11.2
of 36.331 \[16\] is the corresponding RRC message is embedded in E-UTRA
RRC message, otherwise it is the RRC processing delay defined in Clause
12 of TS38.331 \[2\]

\- T~first-SSB~ is time to first SSB transmission occasion after RRC
processing by the UE, during which some of the SSB occasions may not be
availabledue to DL CCA failures;

\- The SSB shall be the QCL-TypeA or QCL-TypeC to target TCI state;

\- L~RRC,known~≤ L~RRC,known,max~ is the corresponding number of SSB
occasions not available at the UE;

\- L~RRC,known,max~ =2 for T~SSB~≤40 ms, L~RRC,known,max~ =1 for
T~SSB~\>40 ms.

\- T~SSB-proc~, TO~k~, and T~SSB~ are as defined in clause 8.10A.3.

If the target TCI state is unknown, UE shall be able to receive PDCCH
with target TCI state of the serving cell on which TCI state switch
occurs at the first slot that is after slot n+ (T~RRC\_processing~ +
TO~uk~\*(T~first-SSB~+ T~SSB-proc~+T~SSB~\*L~RRC,unknown~) ) / *NR slot
length*. The UE is not required to receive PDCCH/PDSCH/CSI-RS or
transmit PUCCH/PUSCH until the end of switching period.

Where,

\- Slot n is the last slot overlapping with the PDSCH carrying RRC
activation command.

\- T~RRC\_processing~ is the RRC processing delay defined in Clause 11.2
of 36.331 \[16\] is the corresponding RRC message is embedded in E-UTRA
RRC message, otherwise it is the RRC processing delay defined in Clause
12 of TS38.331 \[2\].

\- T~first-SSB~ is time to first SSB transmission occasion after RRC
processing time at the, during which some SSB occasions may not be
available at the UE due to DL CCA failures;

\- The SSB shall be the QCL-TypeA or QCL-TypeC to target TCI state;

\- L~RRC,unknown~≤L~RRC,unknown,max~ is the corresponding number of SSB
occasions not available at the UE;

\- L~RRC,unknown,max~ = 2 for T~SSB~ ≤40 ms, L~RRC,unknown,max~ = 1 for
T~SSB~\>40 ms.

\- TO~uk~, T~SSB-proc~, and T~SSB~ are as defined in clause 8.10A.3

The requirements for RRC based TCI state switch delay apply when only 1
TCI state is configured in RRC TCI state list. When
${T_{\text{HARQ}} > \ T}_{RRC\_ processing}$ a longer switching delay is
allowed. Where $T_{\text{HARQ}}$ is the time between DL data
transmission and acknowledgement as specified in TS 38.213 \[3\].

### 8.10A.6 Active TCI state list update delay

If the target TCI state is known, upon receiving PDSCH carrying MAC-CE
active TCI state list update at slot n, UE shall be able to receive
PDCCH to schedule PDSCH with the new target TCI state at the first slot
that is after n +$\ {3N}_{\text{slot}}^{subframe,µ}$ + (T~HARQ~
+TO~k~\*(T~first-SSB~ + T~SSB-proc~+T~SSB~\*L~MAC,known~)) / *NR slot
length*. Where T~HARQ~, T~first-SSB,~ T~SSB-proc\ ,~ T~SSB~,
L~MAC,known~ and TO~k~ are as defined in clause 8.10A.3.

8.11 PSCell Change
------------------

This clause defines requirements for the delay within which the UE shall
be able to change PSCell to other cell in EN-DC or NR-DC. The
requirements in this clause are applicable to EN-DC and NR-DC.

The UE shall be capable of transmitting PRACH preamble towards the
target PSCell no later than specified in clause 8.9.2 for the case of
NR-DC and in TS 36.133 clause 7.31.2 for the case of EN-DC, where the
following values for slot n, T~processing~ and T~RRC\_delay~ shall
override the existing ones:

\- Slot n is the last slot overlapping with the PDSCH containing PSCell
change,

\- T~processing~ = 20 ms when source and target cells are in the same
FR,

\- T~processing~ = 40 ms when source and target cells are in different
FRs.

\- T~RRC\_delay~ is the RRC procedure delay as specified in TS 36.331
\[16\] if the corresponding RRC message is embedded in E-UTRA RRC
message, otherwise it is the RRC procedure delay as specified in TS
38.331 \[2\].

If the SMTC periodicity of the target cell is not provided within the
PSCell change message, and measObjectNRs having the same SSB frequency
and subcarrier spacing configured by MN and SN have different SMTC,
T~rs~ is the periodicity of one of the SMTC which is up to UE
implementation.

The target PSCell is known if it has been meeting the conditions in
clause 8.9.2 for the case of NR-DC and in TS36.133 clause 7.31.2 for the
case of EN-DC.

The interruption on PCell and other serving cells specified in TS36.133
clause 7.32.2.1 for EN-DC and in TS38.133 clause 8.2.4.2.1 for NR-DC is
allowed only during the RRC reconfiguration procedure \[2\].

8.11A void
----------

8.11B Conditional PSCell Change
-------------------------------

### 8.11B.1 Introduction

This clause defines requirements for the delay within which the UE shall
be able to perform conditional PSCell change in EN-DC or NR-DC. The
requirements in this clause are applicable to EN-DC and NR-DC.

### 8.11B.2 Conditoinal PSCell Change delay

The requirements in this clause shall apply for the UE configured with
only PCell in FR1.

The UE shall be capable to transmit PRACH preamble towards the new
target PSCell no later than in slot*n* + T~config\_PSCell\_Conditional~:

Where:

\- Slot n is the last slot overlapping with the PDSCH containing
conditional PSCell change.

\- T~config\_PSCell\_Conditional~ = T~RRC\_delay~ + *T~Event\_DU~ +*
T~measure~ + T~UE\_preparation~ + T~processing~ + T~∆~ + T~PSCell\_\ DU~
+ 2 ms

\- T~RRC\_delay~ is the RRC processing delay defined in Clause 11.2 in
36.331 \[16\] is the corresponding RRC message is embedded in E-UTRA RRC
message, otherwise it is the RRC procedure delay defined in clause 12 in
TS 38.331 \[2\] for processing the conditional PSCell change command.

\- *T~Event\_DU~* is the delay uncertainty which is the time from when
the UE successfully decodes a conditional PSCell change command until a
condition exists at the measurement reference point which will trigger
the conditional PSCell change.

\- **T~measure~** is the measurements time stated in clause 8.11B.2.1.

\- T~UE\_preparation~ is the UE preparation time for conditional PSCell
change, and starts after UE realizes the condition of PSCell change is
met and identity of new PSCell is determined. T~UE\_preparation~ is up
to 10ms.

\- T~processing~ is the SW processing time needed by UE, including RF
warm up period. T~processing~ = 20 ms when source and target cells are
in the same FR, and T~processing~ = 40 ms when source and target cells
are in different FRs.

\- T~∆~ is time for fine time tracking and acquiring full timing
information of the target cell. T~∆~ = 1\*Trs ms.

\- T~rs~ is the SMTC periodicity of the target cell if the UE has been
provided with an SMTC configuration for the target cell in PSCell
addition message, otherwise T~rs~ is the SMTC configured in the
measObjectNR having the same SSB frequency and subcarrier spacing. If
the UE is not provided SMTC configuration or measurement object on this
frequency, the requirement in this clause is applied with T~rs~ = 5 ms
assuming the SSB transmission periodicity is 5 ms. There is no
requirement if the SSB transmission periodicity is not 5 ms.

\- T~PSCell\_\ DU~ is the delay uncertainty in acquiring the first
available PRACH occasion in the PSCell. T~PSCell\_\ DU~ is up to the
summation of SSB to PRACH occasion association period and 10 ms. SSB to
PRACH occasion associated period is defined in Table 8.1-1 of TS 38.213
\[3\].

The PCell interruption specified in clause 8.2 is allowed only after the
UE starts to execute a conditional PSCell change.

#### 8.11B.2.1 Measurement time

The measurement time delay is defined from the end of *T~Event\_DU~*
until UE executes a PSCell change to a target cell and interruption time
starts.

For intra-frequency PSCell change, the measurement time delay measured
without Time To Trigger (TTT) and L3 filtering shall be less than
Tidentify intra with index or Tidentify\_intra\_without\_index defined
in clause 9.2.5.1 or clause 9.2.6.2.

For inter-frequency PSCell change, the measurement time delay measured
without Time To Trigger (TTT) and L3 filtering shall be less than
T~identify\_inter\_without\_index~ or T~identify\_inter\_with\_index~
defined in clause 9.3.4. When TTT or L3 filtering is used an additional
delay can be expected.

A cell is detectable only if at least one SSB measured from the cell
being configured remains detectable during the time period
Tidentify\_intra\_without\_index or Tidentify\_intra\_with\_index for
intra-frequency PSCell change or the time period
Tidentify\_inter\_without\_index or Tidentify\_inter\_with\_index for
inter-frequency PSCell change. If a cell, which has been detectable at
least for the time period Tidentify\_intra\_without\_index or
Tidentify\_intra\_with\_index for intra-frequency PSCell change or the
time period Tidentify\_inter\_without\_index or
Tidentify\_inter\_with\_index for inter-frequency PSCell change, becomes
undetectable for a period and then the cell becomes detectable again and
triggers a PSCell change, the measurement time delay shall be less than
TSSB\_measurement\_period\_intra or TSSB\_measurement\_period\_inter
provided the timing to that cell has not changed more than ±
3200/$2^{µ}$ Tc while the measurement gap has not been available and the
L3 filter has not been used, where *µ* is the SCS configuration as
defined in clause 4.2 of TS 38.211 \[3\]. When L3 filtering is used, an
additional delay can be expected.

8.12 Uplink spatial relation switch delay
-----------------------------------------

### 8.12.1 Introduction

The requirements in this clause apply for a UE configured with one or
more spatial relation configurations on serving cell in MR-DC or
standalone NR. There is no requirement when the UE is requested to
switch to a spatial relation with the higher layer parameter
*spatialRelationInfo* associated to SRS. UE shall complete the switch of
active spatial relation within the delay defined in this clause when the
UE is requested to switch to a spatial relation with the higher layer
parameter *spatialRelationInfo* associated to a DL RS.

### 8.12.2 Known conditions for spatial relation when associated with DL-RS

The spatial relation associated to DL RS is known if the following
conditions are met:

\- During the period from the last transmission of the DL RS resource
used for the L1-RSRP measurement reporting for the target spatial
relation to the completion of active spatial relation switch, where the
DL RS resource for L1-RSRP measurement is the DL RS in target spatial
relation or QCLed to the target spatial relation with QCL type-D.

\- Spatial relation switch command is received within 1280 ms upon the
last transmission of the DL RS resource for beam reporting or
measurement

\- The UE has sent at least 1 L1-RSRP report for the target spatial
relation before the spatial relation switch command

\- The DL RS configured in spatial relation remains detectable during
the spatial relation switching period

\- SNR of the DL RS configured in spatial relation ≥ -3dB

\- The SSB associated with the spatial relation remain detectable during
the spatial relation switching period

\- SNR of the SSB associated with the spatial relation ≥ -3dB

Otherwise, the spatial relation is unknown.

### 8.12.3 MAC-CE based spatial relation switch delay

If the target spatial relation associated to DL RS is known, upon
receiving PDSCH carrying MAC-CE activation command in slot n, for UL
spatial relation switch for PUCCH or semi-persistent SRS transmission of
serving cell with a target UL spatial relation, the UE shall be able to
transmit PUCCH or semi-persistent SRS with the target UL spatial
relation in the slot n+ T~HARQ~ + ${3N}_{\text{slot}}^{subframe,µ}$+ 1
when *beamCorrespondenceWithoutUL-BeamSweeping* is set to 1 where
T~HARQ~ is the timing between DL data transmission and acknowledgement
as specified in TS 38.213 \[3\].

If the target spatial relation associated to DL RS is unknown, upon
receiving PDSCH carrying MAC-CE activation command in slot n, for UL
spatial relation switch for PUCCH or semi-persistent SRS transmission of
serving cell with a target UL spatial relation, the UE shall be able to
transmit PUCCH or semi-persistent SRS with the target UL spatial
relation in the slot n+ T~HARQ~ + ${3N}_{\text{slot}}^{subframe,µ}$+
T~L1-RSRP~+1 when *beamCorrespondenceWithoutUL-BeamSweeping* is set to
1.

Where

\- T~HARQ~ is the timing between DL data transmission and
acknowledgement as specified in TS 38.213 \[3\],

\- T ~L1-RSRP~ is the time for Rx beam refinement in FR2, defined as

\- T~L1-RSPR\_Measurement\_Period\_SSB~ for SSB as specified in clause
9.5.4.1,

\- with the assumption of M=1

\- with T~Report~ = 0

\- T~L1-RSRP\_Measurement\_Period\_CSI-RS~ for CSI-RS as specified in
clause 9.5.4.2

\- configured with higher layer parameter *repetition* set to ON

\- with the assumption of M=1 for periodic CSI-RS

\- for aperiodic CSI-RS if number of resources in resource set at least
equal to *MaxNumberRxBeam*

\- with T~Report~ = 0

The UE shall be able to transmit with the old UL spatial relation until
slot n+ T~HARQ~ + ${3N}_{\text{slot}}^{subframe,µ}$.

When the UL spatial relation info switch for PUCCH changes both the
associated DL RS and *pucch-PathlossReferenceRS* with the same MAC-CE
activation, and if both the DL RS and *pucch-PathlossReferenceRS* are
known as specified in clause 8.12.2 and 8.14.2 respectively, the UE
shall be able to transmit PUCCH with the target UL spatial relation
after the delay specified in clause 8.14.3. If either the associated DL
RS or *pucch-PathlossReferenceRS* are unknown, a longer switching delay
is allowed. The UE is not required to transmit PUCCH with the target UL
spatial relation until the DL RS and pathloss reference RS switch are
completed.

### 8.12.4 DCI based spatial relation switch delay

If the target spatial relation associated to DL RS is known, when a UE
receives the DCI triggering aperiodic SRS at slot n with the higher
layer parameter *spatialRelationInfo*, UE shall be able to transmit
aperiodic SRS with target spatial relation of the serving cell on which
spatial relation switch occurs in the slot+1, where, *k* is configured
via higher layer parameter *slotOffset*\[2\] for each triggered SRS
resources set and is based on the subcarrier spacing of the triggered
SRS transmission, *µ~SRS~* and *µ~PDCCH~* are the subcarrier spacing
configurations for triggered SRS and PDCCH carrying the triggering
command respectively in TS 38.214 \[26\].

The known condition for spatial relation associated to DL RS defined in
clause 8.12.2 is applied.

### 8.12.5 RRC based spatial relation switch delay

If the target spatial relation associated to DL RS is known, UE shall be
able to transmit target periodic SRS with spatial relation of the
serving cell on which periodic SRS with spatial relation reconfigured in
the slot n+ T~RRC\_processing~ /*NR slot length* +1 when
*beamCorrespondenceWithoutUL-BeamSweeping* is set to 1

Where

\- Slot n is the last slot overlapping with the PDSCH carrying RRC
activation command,

\- T~RRC\_processing~ is the RRC processing delay defined in 36.331
\[16\] is the corresponding RRC message is embedded in E-UTRA RRC
message, otherwise it is the RRC processing delay defined in TS38.331
\[2\].

If the target spatial relation associated to DL RS is unknown, UE shall
be able to transmit target periodic SRS with spatial relation of the
serving cell on which periodic SRS with spatial relation reconfigured in
the slot n+ T~RRC\_processing~ /*NR slot length* + T~L1-RSRP~ +1 when
*beamCorrespondenceWithoutUL-BeamSweeping* is set to 1.

Where

\- Slot n is the last slot overlapping with the PDSCH carrying RRC
activation command,

\- T~RRC\_processing~ is the RRC processing delay defined in 36.331
\[16\] is the corresponding RRC message is embedded in E-UTRA RRC
message, otherwise it is the RRC processing delay defined in TS38.331
\[2\].

\- T~L1-RSRP~ is defined in clause 8.12.3

8.13 UE-specific CBW change
---------------------------

### 8.13.1 Introduction

The requirements in this clause apply for a UE receives reconfiguration
of *offsetToCarrier* or *carrierBandwidth* to change channel bandwidth.

### 8.13.2 UE-specific CBW change delay

After the UE receives RRC reconfiguration involving *offsetToCarrier* or
*carrierBandwidth* change on the old CBW, UE shall be able to receive
PDSCH/PDCCH on the DL BWP with BWP ID firstActiveDownlinkBWP-Id or
transmit PUSCH on the UL BWP with BWP ID firstActiveUplinkBWP-Id of the
new CBW right after a time duration of
$\frac{{T_{\text{RRCprocessingDelay}} + T}_{\text{CBWchangeDelayRRC}}}{\text{NR\ Slot\ length}}$
slots which begins from the beginning of DL slot n, where

DL slot n is the last slot overlapping with the PDSCH containing the RRC
command, and

$T_{\text{RRCprocessingDelay}}$ is the length of the RRC procedure delay
in millisecond as defined in clause 11.2 in TS 36.331 \[6\] is the
corresponding RRC message is embedded in E-UTRA RRC message, otherwise
it is the length of the RRC procedure delay in millisecond as defined in
clause 12 in TS 38.331 \[2\], and

$T_{\text{CBWchangeDelayRRC}} = 6ms$ is the time used by the UE to
perform CBW change.

The UE is not required to transmit UL signals or receive DL signals
during the above defined time duration
$\frac{{T_{\text{RRCprocessingDelay}} + T}_{\text{CBWchangeDelayRRC}}}{\text{NR\ Slot\ length}}$
on the cell where UE-specific CBW change occurs. When
${T_{\text{HARQ}} > \ T}_{\text{RRCprocessingDelay}}$ a longer switching
delay is allowed. Where $T_{\text{HARQ}}$ is the time between DL data
transmission and acknowledgement as specified in TS 38.213 \[3\].

### 8.14 Pathloss reference signal switching delay

#### 8.14.1 Introduction

The requirements in this clause apply for pathloss reference signal
activated or updated on serving cell in MR-DC or standalone NR in clause
7.1.1 in TS 38.213 \[3\].

UE shall complete the switch of pathloss reference signal within the
delay defined in this clause.

#### 8.14.2 Known conditions for pathloss reference signal

In FR2, the pathloss reference signal is known if the following
conditions are met during the period between the last transmission of
the RS resource used for L1-RSRP measurement reporting and the
completion of pathloss reference signal switch, where the RS resource is
the target pathloss reference signal or QCLed (with Type D) to the
target pathloss reference signal.

\- Pathloss reference signal switch command is received within 1280 ms
upon the last transmission of the RS resource for beam reporting or
measurement

\- The UE has sent at least 1 L1-RSRP report for the target pathloss
reference signal before the pathloss reference signal switch command

\- The target pathloss reference signal remains detectable during the
pathloss reference signal switching period

\- SNR of the target pathloss reference signal≥-3dB

\- The associated SSBs with the target pathloss reference signal remain
detectable during the pathloss reference signal switching period

\- SNR of the associated SSB ≥-3dB

In FR1, the pathloss reference signal is known if the following
conditions are met

\- The target pathloss reference signal remains detectable during the
pathloss reference signal switching period

\- SNR of the target pathloss reference signal≥-3dB

Otherwise, the pathloss reference signal is unknown.

#### 8.14.3 MAC-CE based pathloss reference signal switch delay

The requirements in this clause apply for a UE to update a pathloss
reference signal by MAC-CE for PUCCH, PUSCH, semi-persistent SRS and
aperiodic SRS.

If the target pathloss reference signal is known, upon receiving PDSCH
carrying MAC-CE activation in slot n, UE shall be able to apply the
target pathloss reference signal of the serving cell on which pathloss
reference signal switch occurs no later than the slot *n* +
$T_{\text{HARQ}}$+$3N_{\text{slot}}^{subframe,µ}$ +
NM\*$\left\lceil \frac{\ 5*T_{\text{target}\_\text{PL} - \text{RS}}\  + \ 2ms}{\text{NR}\ \text{slot}\ \text{length}} \right\rceil$.
The UE shall be able to apply old pathloss reference signals until the
slot n + $T_{\text{HARQ}}$+ $3N_{\text{slot}}^{subframe,µ}$. Where

\- $T_{\text{HARQ}}$ is the timing between pathloss reference MAC-CE
activation command and acknowledgement as specified in TS 38.321 \[7\].

\- NM = 1, if the target PL-RS is not maintained by the UE, 0 otherwise.

In FR2, if the target pathloss reference signal is SSB, the requirements
in this clause shall apply when the target pathloss reference signal is
maintained by the UE.

\- $T_{target\_ PL - RS}$ is the periodicity of the target pathloss
reference signal which would be SSB or NZP CSI-RS.

\- PL-RS is maintained provided:

> \- There are no more than 4 different RS activated as PL-RS per
> serving cell among all active spatial relations for PUSCH/PUCCH/SRS
> transmissions.
>
> \- **The target pathloss reference signal remains detectable during
> TCI state switching period**
>
> \- **SNR of the target pathloss reference signal≥-3dB**

\- **The associated SSBs with the target pathloss reference signal
remain detectable during the TCI state switching period.**

> \- **SNR of the associated SSB ≥-3dB**

Note: longer application time is expected if measurement sample is not
available due to measurement gap, DRX or other UE activities.

Note: longer application time is expected if the pathloss reference
signal is unknown.

9 Measurement Procedure
=======================

9.1 General measurement requirement
-----------------------------------

### 9.1.1 Introduction

This clause contains general requirements on the UE regarding
measurement reporting in RRC\_CONNECTED state. The requirements are
split in intra-frequency, inter-frequency, inter-RAT E-UTRAN FDD,
inter-RAT E-UTRAN TDD, and L1-RSRP measurements requirements. These
measurements may be used by the NG-RAN. The measurement quantities are
defined in TS38.215 \[4\], the measurement model is defined in TS38.300
\[10\], TS37.340 \[17\] and measurement accuracies are specified in
clause 10. Control of measurement reporting is specified in
TS 38.331 \[2\].

In the requirements of clause 9, the exceptions for side conditions
apply as follows:

\- for the UE capable of CA but not configured with any SCell, the
applicable exceptions for side conditions are specified in Annex B,
clause B.3.2.1 for UE supporting CA in FR1, and clause B.3.2.3 for UE
supporting CA in FR2, respectively;

\- for the UE capable of CA and configured with at least one SCell, the
applicable exceptions for side conditions are specified in Annex B,
clause B.3.2.2 for UE configured with CA in FR1, and clause B.3.2.4 for
UE supporting CA in FR2, respectively;

\- for the UE capable of SUL but not configured with SUL, the applicable
exceptions for side conditions are specified in Annex B, clause B.3.4.1
for UE supporting SUL in FR1;

\- for the UE capable of SUL and configured with at least one SUL, the
applicable exceptions for side conditions are specified in Annex B,
clause B.3.4.2 for UE configured with SUL in FR1.

### 9.1.2 Measurement gap

If the UE requires measurement gaps to identify and measure
intra-frequency cells and/or inter-frequency cells and/or inter-RAT
E-UTRAN cells, and the UE does not support independent measurement gap
patterns for different frequency ranges as specified in Table 5.1-1 in
\[18, 19, 20\], in order for the requirements in the following clauses
to apply the network must provide a single per-UE measurement gap
pattern for concurrent monitoring of all frequency layers.

If the UE requires measurement gaps to identify and measure
intra-frequency cells and/or inter-frequency cells and/or inter-RAT
E-UTRAN cells, and the UE supports independent measurement gap patterns
for different frequency ranges as specified in Table 5.1-1 in \[18, 19,
20\], in order for the requirements in the following clauses to apply
the network must provide either per-FR measurement gap patterns for
frequency range where UE requires per-FR measurement gap for concurrent
monitoring of all frequency layers of each frequency range
independently, or a single per-UE measurement gap pattern for concurrent
monitoring of all frequency layers of all frequency ranges.

If the UE is configured via LPP \[34\] to measure PRS for any RSTD,
PRS-RSRP, and UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement defined in TS 38.215
\[4\], in order for the requirements in clauses 9.9.2, 9.9.3, and 9.9.4
to apply, the network must provide

\- a single per-UE measurement gap pattern for concurrent monitoring of
all positioning frequency layers and intra-frequency, inter-frequency
and/or inter-RAT frequency layers of all frequency ranges, or

During the per-UE measurement gaps the UE:

\- is not required to conduct reception/transmission from/to the
corresponding E-UTRAN PCell, E-UTRAN SCell(s) and NR serving cells for
E-UTRA-NR dual connectivity except the reception of signals used for RRM
measurement(s) and the signals used for random access procedure
according to TS38.321 \[7\].

\- is not required to conduct reception/transmission from/to the
corresponding NR serving cells for SA (with single carrier or CA
configured) except the reception of signals used for RRM measurement(s),
PRS measurement(s) and the signals used for random access procedure
according to \[7\].

\- is not required to conduct reception/transmission from/to the
corresponding PCell, SCell(s) and E-UTRAN serving cells for NR-E-UTRA
dual connectivity except the reception of signals used for RRM
measurement(s), PRS measurement(s) and the signals used for random
access procedure according to \[7\].

\- is not required to conduct reception/transmission from/to the
corresponding NR serving cells for NR-DC except the reception of signals
used for RRM measurement(s), PRS measurement(s) and the signals used for
random access procedure according to \[7\].

During the per-FR measurement gaps the UE:

\- is not required to conduct reception/transmission from/to the
corresponding E-UTRAN PCell, E-UTRAN SCell(s) and NR serving cells in
the corresponding frequency range for E-UTRA-NR dual connectivity except
the reception of signals used for RRM measurement(s) and the signals
used for random access procedure according to TS38.321 \[7\].

\- is not required to conduct reception/transmission from/to the
corresponding NR serving cells in the corresponding frequency range for
SA (with single carrier or CA configured) except the reception of
signals used for RRM measurement(s) and the signals used for random
access procedure according to TS38.321 \[7\].

\- is not required to conduct reception/transmission from/to the
corresponding PCell, SCell(s) and E-UTRAN serving cells in the
corresponding frequency range for NR-E-UTRA dual connectivity except the
reception of signals used for RRM measurement(s) and the signals used
for random access procedure according to TS38.321 \[7\].

\- is not required to conduct reception/transmission from/to the
corresponding NR serving cells in the corresponding frequency range for
NR-DC except the reception of signals used for RRM measurement(s) and
the signals used for random access procedure according to TS38.321
\[7\].

UEs shall support the measurement gap patterns listed in Table 9.1.2-1
based on the applicability specified in table 9.1.2-2 and 9.1.2-3. UE
determines measurement gap timing based on gap offset configuration and
measurement gap timing advance configuration provided by higher layer
signalling as specified in TS 38.331 \[2\] and TS 36.331 \[16\].

Table 9.1.2-1: Gap Pattern Configurations

+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| Gap Pattern Id | Measurement Gap Length  | Measurement Gap         |
|                | (MGL, ms)               | Repetition Period       |
|                |                         |                         |
|                |                         | (MGRP, ms)              |
+================+=========================+=========================+
| 0              | 6                       | 40                      |
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 1              | 6                       | 80                      |
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 2              | 3                       | 40                      |
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 3              | 3                       | 80                      |
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 4              | 6                       | 20                      |
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 5              | 6                       | 160                     |
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 6              | 4                       | 20                      |
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 7              | 4                       | 40                      |
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 8              | 4                       | 80                      |
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 9              | 4                       | 160                     |
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 10             | 3                       | 20                      |
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 11             | 3                       | 160                     |
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 12             | 5.5                     | 20                      |
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 13             | 5.5                     | 40                      |
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 14             | 5.5                     | 80                      |
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 15             | 5.5                     | 160                     |
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 16             | 3.5                     | 20                      |
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 17             | 3.5                     | 40                      |
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 18             | 3.5                     | 80                      |
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 19             | 3.5                     | 160                     |
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 20             | 1.5                     | 20                      |
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 21             | 1.5                     | 40                      |
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 22             | 1.5                     | 80                      |
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 23             | 1.5                     | 160                     |
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 24             | 10                      | 80                      |
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 25             | 20                      | 160                     |
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+

Table 9.1.2-2: Applicability for Gap Pattern Configurations supported by
the E-UTRA-NR dual connectivity UE or NR-E-UTRA dual connectivity UE

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Measurement    | Serving cell   | Measurement    | Applicable Gap |
| gap pattern    |                | Pu             | Pattern Id     |
| configuration  |                | rpose^Note\ 5^ |                |
+================+================+================+================+
| Per-UE         | E-UTRA + FR1,  | non-NR RAT     | 0,1,2,3        |
|                | or             | ^Note1,2^      |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Measurement    | E-UTRA + FR2,  | FR1 and/or FR2 | 0-11, 24, 25   |
| gap            | or E-UTRA +    | ^Note\ 7^      |                |
|                | FR1 + FR2      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                |                | non-NR         | 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, |
|                |                | RAT^Note1,2^   | 6, 7, 8,10, 24 |
|                |                | and FR1 and/or |                |
|                |                | FR2 ^Note\ 7^  |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | E-UTRA and,    | non-NR RAT     | 0,1,2,3        |
|                | FR1 if         | ^Note1,2^      |                |
|                | configured     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | FR2 if         |                | No gap         |
|                | configured     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | E-UTRA and,    | FR1 only       | 0-11           |
|                | FR1 if         |                |                |
|                | configured     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | FR2 if         |                | No gap         |
|                | configured     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | E-UTRA and,    | FR2 only       | No gap         |
|                | FR1 if         |                |                |
|                | configured     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Per-FR         | FR2 if         |                | 12-23          |
|                | configured     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| measurement    | E-UTRA and,    | non-NR RAT     | 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, |
| gap            | FR1 if         | ^Note1,2^ and  | 6, 7, 8,10     |
|                | configured     | FR1            |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | FR2 if         |                | No gap         |
|                | configured     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | E-UTRA and,    | FR1 and FR2    | 0-11           |
|                | FR1 if         |                |                |
|                | configured     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | FR2 if         |                | 12-23          |
|                | configured     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | E-UTRA and,    | non-NR RAT     | 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, |
|                | FR1 if         | ^Note1,2^ and  | 6, 7, 8,10     |
|                | configured     | FR2            |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | FR2 if         |                | 12-23          |
|                | configured     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | E-UTRA and,    | non-NR RAT     | 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, |
|                | FR1 if         | ^Note1,2^ and  | 6, 7, 8,10     |
|                | configured     | FR1 and FR2    |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | FR2 if         |                | 12-23          |
|                | configured     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Note: In       |                |                |                |
| E-UTRA-NR dual |                |                |                |
| connectivity   |                |                |                |
| mode, if GSM   |                |                |                |
| or UTRA TDD or |                |                |                |
| UTRA FDD       |                |                |                |
| inter-RAT      |                |                |                |
| frequency      |                |                |                |
| layer is       |                |                |                |
| configured to  |                |                |                |
| be monitored,  |                |                |                |
| only           |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| gap pattern    |                |                |                |
| \#0 and \#1    |                |                |                |
| can be used    |                |                |                |
| for per-FR gap |                |                |                |
| in E-UTRA and  |                |                |                |
| FR1 if         |                |                |                |
| configured, or |                |                |                |
| for per-UE     |                |                |                |
| gap. In        |                |                |                |
| NR-E-UTRA dual |                |                |                |
| connectivity   |                |                |                |
| mode, if UTRA  |                |                |                |
| FDD inter-RAT  |                |                |                |
| frequency      |                |                |                |
| layer is       |                |                |                |
| configured to  |                |                |                |
| be monitored   |                |                |                |
| for SRVCC,     |                |                |                |
| only           |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| gap pattern    |                |                |                |
| \#0 and \#1    |                |                |                |
| can be used    |                |                |                |
| for per-FR gap |                |                |                |
| in E-UTRA and  |                |                |                |
| FR1 if         |                |                |                |
| configured, or |                |                |                |
| for per-UE     |                |                |                |
| gap.           |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 1: In     |                |                |                |
| E-UTRA-NR dual |                |                |                |
| connectivity   |                |                |                |
| mode, non-NR   |                |                |                |
| RAT includes   |                |                |                |
| E-UTRA, UTRA   |                |                |                |
| and/or GSM. In |                |                |                |
| NR-E-UTRA dual |                |                |                |
| connectivity   |                |                |                |
| mode, non-NR   |                |                |                |
| RAT means      |                |                |                |
| E-UTRA, and    |                |                |                |
| UTRA for       |                |                |                |
| SRVCC.         |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 2: Void   |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 3: When   |                |                |                |
| E-UTRA         |                |                |                |
| i              |                |                |                |
| nter-frequency |                |                |                |
| RSTD           |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| are configured |                |                |                |
| and the UE     |                |                |                |
| requires       |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| gaps for       |                |                |                |
| performing     |                |                |                |
| such           |                |                |                |
| measurements,  |                |                |                |
| only Gap       |                |                |                |
| Pattern \#0    |                |                |                |
| can be used.   |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 4: For UE |                |                |                |
| supporting     |                |                |                |
| *supp          |                |                |                |
| ortedGapPatter |                |                |                |
| n-NRonly-NEDC* |                |                |                |
| or             |                |                |                |
| *meas          |                |                |                |
| GapPatterns-NR |                |                |                |
| only-ENDC-r16* |                |                |                |
| but not        |                |                |                |
| supporting     |                |                |                |
| *suppor        |                |                |                |
| tedGapPattern* |                |                |                |
| for the        |                |                |                |
| corresponding  |                |                |                |
| gap patterns   |                |                |                |
| among GP2-11,  |                |                |                |
| the            |                |                |                |
| corresponding  |                |                |                |
| gap patterns   |                |                |                |
| are not        |                |                |                |
| applicable to  |                |                |                |
| measurement of |                |                |                |
| non-NR RATs as |                |                |                |
| defined in     |                |                |                |
| NOTE 1.        |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 5:        |                |                |                |
| Inclusion of   |                |                |                |
| positioning    |                |                |                |
| measurements:  |                |                |                |
| Measurement    |                |                |                |
| purpose which  |                |                |                |
| includes       |                |                |                |
| E-UTRA         |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| includes also  |                |                |                |
| E-UTRA RSRP    |                |                |                |
| and E-UTRA     |                |                |                |
| RSRQ           |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| for E-CID.     |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 6:        |                |                |                |
| Measurement    |                |                |                |
| gap patterns   |                |                |                |
| \#24 and \#25  |                |                |                |
| can be         |                |                |                |
| requested      |                |                |                |
| \[2\] only     |                |                |                |
| when the UE is |                |                |                |
| configured at  |                |                |                |
| least with any |                |                |                |
| of RSTD, UE    |                |                |                |
| Rx-Tx, or      |                |                |                |
| PRS-RSRP       |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| requiring such |                |                |                |
| gaps and can   |                |                |                |
| only be used   |                |                |                |
| during the     |                |                |                |
| corresponding  |                |                |                |
| positioning    |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| period         |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 7:        |                |                |                |
| Inclusion of   |                |                |                |
| positioning    |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| for per-UE     |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| gaps:          |                |                |                |
| Measurement    |                |                |                |
| purpose which  |                |                |                |
| includes any   |                |                |                |
| of FR1 and FR2 |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| includes also  |                |                |                |
| RSTD, UE       |                |                |                |
| Rx-Tx, and     |                |                |                |
| PRS-RSRP       |                |                |                |
| measurements.  |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

In E-UTRA-NR dual connectivity mode,

\- if per-UE measurement gap is configured with MG timing advance of
T~MG~ ms, the measurement gap starts at time T~MG~ ms advanced to the
end of the latest E-UTRA subframe occurring immediately before the
configured measurement gap among MCG serving cells subframes.

\- if per-FR measurement gap for FR1 is configured with MG timing
advance of T~MG~ ms, the measurement gap for FR1 starts at time T~MG~ ms
advanced to the end of the latest E-UTRA subframe occurring immediately
before the configured measurement gap among MCG serving cells subframes.

\- if per-FR measurement gap for FR2 is configured with MG timing
advance of T~MG~ ms, the measurement gap for FR2 starts at time T~MG~ ms
advanced to the end of the latest NR subframe occurring immediately
before the configured measurement gap among SCG serving cells subframes
in FR2.

In NR-E-UTRA dual connectivity mode,

\- if per-UE measurement gap is configured with MG timing advance of
T~MG~ ms, the measurement gap starts at time T~MG~ ms advanced to the
end of the latest NR subframe occurring immediately before the
configured measurement gap among MCG serving cells subframes.

\- if per-FR measurement gap for FR1 is configured with MG timing
advance of T~MG~ ms and UE has NR serving cell in FR1, the measurement
gap for FR1 starts at time T~MG~ ms advanced to the end of the latest NR
subframe occurring immediately before the configured measurement gap
among MCG serving cells subframes in FR1.

\- if per-FR measurement gap for FR1 is configured with MG timing
advance of T~MG~ ms and UE doesn't have NR serving cell in FR1, the
measurement gap for FR1 starts at time T~MG~ ms advanced to the end of
the latest E-UTRA subframe occurring immediately before the configured
measurement gap among SCG serving cells subframes.

\- if per-FR measurement gap for FR2 is configured with MG timing
advance of T~MG~ ms, the measurement gap for FR2 starts at time T~MG~ ms
advanced to the end of the latest NR subframe occurring immediately
before the configured measurement gap among MCG serving cells subframes
in FR2.

In NR-NR dual connectivity mode,

\- If per-UE measurement gap is configured with MG timing advance of
T~MG~ ms, the measurement gap starts at time T~MG~ ms advanced to the
end of the latest MCG subframe occurring immediately before the
configured measurement gap among MCG serving cells subframes.

\- If per-FR measurement gap for FR1 is configured with MG timing
advance of T~MG~ ms, the measurement gap for FR1 starts at time T~MG~ ms
advanced to the end of the latest MCG subframe occurring immediately
before the configured measurement gap among MCG serving cells subframes.

\- If per-FR measurement gap for FR2 is configured with MG timing
advance of T~MG~ ms, the measurement gap for FR2 starts at time T~MG~ ms
advanced to the end of the latest SCG subframe occurring immediately
before the configured measurement gap among SCG serving cells subframes
in FR2.

T~MG~ is the MG timing advance value provided in *mgta* according to
TS38.331 \[2\].

In determining the measurement gap starting point, UE shall use the DL
timing of the latest E-UTRA or NR subframe occurring immediately before
the configured measurement gap among E-UTRA or NR serving cells.

For per-FR measurement gap capable UE configured with E-UTRA-NR dual
connectivity or NR-E-UTRA dual connectivity, when serving cells are in
E-UTRA and FR1, measurement objects are in both E-UTRA/FR1 and FR2,

\- If MN indicates UE that the measurement gap from MN applies to
E-UTRA/FR1/FR2 serving cells, UE fulfils the per-UE measurement
requirements for both E-UTRA/FR1 and FR2 measurement objects based on
the measurement gap pattern configured by MN;

\- If MN indicates UE that the measurement gap from MN applies to only
LTE/FR1 serving cell(s),

> \- UE fulfils the measurement requirements for FR1/LTE measurement
> objects based on the configured measurement gap pattern;
>
> \- UE fulfils the requirements for FR2 measurement objects based on
> effective MGRP=20ms;

For per-FR measurement gap capable configured with E-UTRA-NR dual
connectivity, NR-E-UTRA dual connectivity or NR-NR dual connectivity,
when serving cells are in E-UTRA, FR1 and FR2, or in E-UTRA and FR2, or
in FR1 and FR2, measurement objects are in both E-UTRA /FR1 and FR2,

> \- If MN indicates UE that the measurement gap from MN applies to
> E-UTRA/FR1/FR2 serving cells, UE fulfils the per-UE measurement
> requirements for both E-UTRA/FR1 and FR2 measurement objects based on
> the measurement gap pattern configured by MN.

Table 9.1.2-3: Applicability for Gap Pattern Configurations supported by
the UE with NR standalone operation (with single carrier, NR CA and
NR-DC configuration)

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Measurement    | Serving cell   | Measurement    | Applicable Gap |
| gap pattern    |                | Purpose        | Pattern Id     |
| configuration  |                | ^NOTE\ 2^      |                |
+================+================+================+================+
|                | FR1 ^NOTE5^,   | non-NR RAT     | 0,1,2,3        |
|                | or             | ^NOTE3,6^      |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | FR1 + FR2      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                |                | FR1 and/or FR2 | 0-11, 24, 25   |
|                |                | ^NOTE\ 9^      |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                |                | non-NR RAT and | 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, |
|                |                | FR1 and/or FR2 | 6, 7, 8,10, 24 |
|                |                | ^NOTE3,6,9^    |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Per-UE         | FR2 ^NOTE5^    | non-NR RAT     | 0,1,2,3        |
| measurement    |                | only           |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                | ^NOTE3,6^      |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| gap            |                | FR1 only       | 0-11, 24, 25   |
|                |                | ^NOTE\ 9^      |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                |                | FR1 and FR2    | 0-11, 24, 25   |
|                |                | ^NOTE\ 9^      |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                |                | non-NR RAT and | 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, |
|                |                | FR1 and/or FR2 | 6, 7, 8,10, 24 |
|                |                | ^NOTE3,6,9^    |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                |                | FR2 only       | 12-23          |
|                |                | ^NOTE\ 9^      |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | FR1 if         | non-NR RAT     | 0,1,2,3        |
|                | configured     | only           |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | FR2 if         | ^NOTE3,6^      | No gap         |
|                | configured     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | FR1 if         | FR1 only       | 0-11           |
|                | configured     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | FR2 if         |                | No gap         |
|                | configured     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | FR1 if         | FR2 only       | No gap         |
|                | configured     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Per-FR         | FR2 if         |                | 12-23          |
|                | configured     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| measurement    | FR1 if         | non-NR RAT and | 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, |
|                | configured     |                | 6, 7, 8,10     |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| gap            | FR2 if         | FR1 ^NOTE3,6^  | No gap         |
|                | configured     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | FR1 if         | FR1 and FR2    | 0-11           |
|                | configured     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | FR2 if         |                | 12-23          |
|                | configured     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | FR1 if         | non-NR RAT and | 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, |
|                | configured     |                | 6, 7, 8,10     |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | FR2 if         | FR2 ^NOTE3,6^  | 12-23          |
|                | configured     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | FR1 if         | non-NR RAT and | 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, |
|                | configured     |                | 6, 7, 8,10     |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | FR2 if         | FR1 and FR2    | 12-23          |
|                | configured     | ^NOTE3,6^      |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| NOTE 1: When   |                |                |                |
| E-UTRA         |                |                |                |
| inter-RAT RSTD |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| are configured |                |                |                |
| and the UE     |                |                |                |
| requires       |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| gaps for       |                |                |                |
| performing     |                |                |                |
| such           |                |                |                |
| measurements,  |                |                |                |
| only Gap       |                |                |                |
| Pattern \#0    |                |                |                |
| can be used.   |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 2:        |                |                |                |
| Measurement    |                |                |                |
| purpose which  |                |                |                |
| includes       |                |                |                |
| E-UTRA         |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| includes also  |                |                |                |
| inter-RAT      |                |                |                |
| E-UTRA RSRP    |                |                |                |
| and RSRQ       |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| for E-CID;     |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| purpose which  |                |                |                |
| includes       |                |                |                |
| E-UTRA         |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| includes also  |                |                |                |
| E-UTRA RSRP    |                |                |                |
| and E-UTRA     |                |                |                |
| RSRQ           |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| for E-CID.     |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 3: Void   |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE4: If      |                |                |                |
| per-UE         |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| gap is         |                |                |                |
| configured     |                |                |                |
| with MG timing |                |                |                |
| advance of     |                |                |                |
| T~MG~ ms, the  |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| gap starts at  |                |                |                |
| time T~MG~ ms  |                |                |                |
| advanced to    |                |                |                |
| the end of the |                |                |                |
| latest         |                |                |                |
| subframe       |                |                |                |
| occurring      |                |                |                |
| immediately    |                |                |                |
| before the     |                |                |                |
| configured     |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| gap among all  |                |                |                |
| serving cells  |                |                |                |
| subframes.     |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| If per-FR      |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| gap for FR1 is |                |                |                |
| configured     |                |                |                |
| with MG timing |                |                |                |
| advance of     |                |                |                |
| T~MG~ ms, the  |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| gap for FR1    |                |                |                |
| starts at time |                |                |                |
| T~MG~ ms       |                |                |                |
| advanced to    |                |                |                |
| the end of the |                |                |                |
| latest         |                |                |                |
| subframe       |                |                |                |
| occurring      |                |                |                |
| immediately    |                |                |                |
| before the     |                |                |                |
| configured     |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| gap among      |                |                |                |
| serving cells  |                |                |                |
| subframes in   |                |                |                |
| FR1.           |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| If per-FR      |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| gap for FR2 is |                |                |                |
| configured     |                |                |                |
| with MG timing |                |                |                |
| advance of     |                |                |                |
| T~MG~ ms, the  |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| gap for FR2    |                |                |                |
| starts at time |                |                |                |
| T~MG~ ms       |                |                |                |
| advanced to    |                |                |                |
| the end of the |                |                |                |
| latest         |                |                |                |
| subframe       |                |                |                |
| occurring      |                |                |                |
| immediately    |                |                |                |
| before the     |                |                |                |
| configured     |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| gap among      |                |                |                |
| serving cells  |                |                |                |
| subframes in   |                |                |                |
| FR2.           |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| T~MG~ is the   |                |                |                |
| MG timing      |                |                |                |
| advance value  |                |                |                |
| provided in    |                |                |                |
| *mgta*         |                |                |                |
| according to   |                |                |                |
| \[2\].         |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| In determining |                |                |                |
| the            |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| gap starting   |                |                |                |
| point, UE      |                |                |                |
| shall use the  |                |                |                |
| DL timing of   |                |                |                |
| the latest     |                |                |                |
| subframe       |                |                |                |
| occurring      |                |                |                |
| immediately    |                |                |                |
| before the     |                |                |                |
| configured     |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| gap among      |                |                |                |
| serving cells. |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 5: NR-DC  |                |                |                |
| in Rel-15 only |                |                |                |
| includes the   |                |                |                |
| scenarios      |                |                |                |
| where all      |                |                |                |
| serving cells  |                |                |                |
| in MCG in FR1  |                |                |                |
| and all        |                |                |                |
| serving cells  |                |                |                |
| in SCG in FR2. |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 6: In NR  |                |                |                |
| single         |                |                |                |
| carrier, NR    |                |                |                |
| CA, and NR-DC  |                |                |                |
| mode, non-NR   |                |                |                |
| RAT means      |                |                |                |
| E-UTRA, and    |                |                |                |
| UTRA for       |                |                |                |
| SRVCC. In NR   |                |                |                |
| single         |                |                |                |
| carrier, NR    |                |                |                |
| CA, and NR-DC  |                |                |                |
| mode, if UTRA  |                |                |                |
| FDD inter-RAT  |                |                |                |
| frequency      |                |                |                |
| layer is       |                |                |                |
| configured to  |                |                |                |
| be monitored   |                |                |                |
| for SRVCC,     |                |                |                |
| only           |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| gap pattern    |                |                |                |
| \#0 and \#1    |                |                |                |
| can be used    |                |                |                |
| for per-FR gap |                |                |                |
| in E-UTRA and  |                |                |                |
| FR1 if         |                |                |                |
| configured, or |                |                |                |
| for per-UE     |                |                |                |
| gap.           |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 7: For UE |                |                |                |
| only           |                |                |                |
| supporting     |                |                |                |
| *supportedGapP |                |                |                |
| attern-NRonly* |                |                |                |
| for any gap    |                |                |                |
| patterns among |                |                |                |
| GP2-11, the    |                |                |                |
| corresponding  |                |                |                |
| gap patterns   |                |                |                |
| are not        |                |                |                |
| applicable to  |                |                |                |
| measurement of |                |                |                |
| non-NR RATs as |                |                |                |
| defined in     |                |                |                |
| NOTE 6.        |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 8:        |                |                |                |
| Measurement    |                |                |                |
| gap patterns   |                |                |                |
| \#24 and \#25  |                |                |                |
| can be         |                |                |                |
| requested      |                |                |                |
| \[2\] only     |                |                |                |
| when the UE is |                |                |                |
| configured     |                |                |                |
| with any of    |                |                |                |
| RSTD, UE       |                |                |                |
| Rx-Tx, or      |                |                |                |
| PRS-RSRP       |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| requiring such |                |                |                |
| gaps and can   |                |                |                |
| only be used   |                |                |                |
| during the     |                |                |                |
| corresponding  |                |                |                |
| positioning    |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| period.        |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 9:        |                |                |                |
| Inclusion of   |                |                |                |
| positioning    |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| for per-UE     |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| gaps:          |                |                |                |
| Measurement    |                |                |                |
| purpose which  |                |                |                |
| includes any   |                |                |                |
| of FR1 and FR2 |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| includes also  |                |                |                |
| RSTD, UE       |                |                |                |
| Rx-Tx, and     |                |                |                |
| PRS-RSRP       |                |                |                |
| measurements.  |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

For per-FR measurement gap capable UE in NR standalone operation (with
single carrier, NR CA and NR-DC configuration), for per-FR gap based
measurement, when there is no serving cell in a particular FR, where
measurement objects are configured, regardless if explicit per-FR
measurement gap is configured in this FR, the effective MGRP in this FR
is used to determine requirements;

\- 20 ms for FR2 NR measurements

\- 40 ms for FR1 NR measurements

\- 40 ms for LTE measurements

\- 40 ms for FR1+LTE measurements

For per-FR measurement gap capable UE in NR standalone operation (with
single carrier, NR CA and NR-DC configuration), when serving cells are
in FR1 or FR2, measurement objects are in both E-UTRA /FR1 and FR2,

\- If MN indicates UE that the measurement gap from MN applies to
E-UTRA/FR1/FR2 serving cells, UE fulfils the per-UE measurement
requirements for both E-UTRA/FR1 and FR2 measurement objects based on
the measurement gap pattern configured by MN;

If measurement gap is configured in one FR but measurement object is not
configured in the FR, the scheduling opportunity in the FR depends on
the configured measurement gap pattern.

For single carrier or CA with aligned frame boundaries,

For E-UTRA-NR dual connectivity (with NR single carrier, NR CA
configuration), if UE is not capable of per-FR-gap, total interruption
time on SCG during MGL is defined only when MGL(N) = 20ms, 10ms, 6ms,
4ms and 3ms. And if UE is capable of per-FR-gap, total interruption time
on FR1 serving cells in SCG during MGL is defined only when MGL(N) =
20ms, 10ms, 6ms, 4ms and 3ms, and total interruption time on FR2 serving
cells in SCG during MGL is defined only when MGL(N) = 20ms, 10ms, 5.5ms,
3.5ms and 1.5ms.

For NR standalone operation (with single carrier, NR CA and NR-DC
configuration), if UE is not capable of per-FR-gap, total interruption
time on a serving cell during MGL is defined when MGL(N) = 20ms, 10ms,
6ms, 5.5ms, 4ms, 3.5ms, 3ms, and 1.5ms. And if UE is capable of
per-FR-gap, total interruption time on FR1 serving cells during MGL is
defined only when MGL(N) = 20ms, 10ms, 6ms, 4ms, and 3ms, and total
interruption time on FR2 serving cells during MGL is defined only when
MGL(N) = 20ms, 10ms, 5.5ms, 3.5ms, and 1.5ms.

For NR-E-UTRA dual connectivity (with NR single carrier, NR CA
configuration), if UE is not capable of per-FR-gap, total interruption
time on MCG during MGL is defined only when MGL(N) = 20ms, 10ms, 6ms,
4ms, and 3ms. And if UE is capable of per-FR-gap, total interruption
time on FR1 serving cells in MCG during MGL is defined only when MGL(N)
= 20ms, 10ms, 6ms, 4ms, and 3ms, and total interruption time on FR2
serving cells in MCG during MGL is defined only when MGL(N) = 20ms,
10ms, 5.5ms, 3.5ms, and 1.5ms.

For CA with non-aligned frame boundaries,

\- The total interruption time on an SCC is the same as the case CA with
aligned frame boundaries, if no SCC slots are partially overlapped with
the measurement gap.

\- The total interruption time on an SCC will be additionally extended
by one SCC slot, if there exist SCC slots partially overlapped with the
measurement gap.

> \(a\) Measurement gap with MGL = N(ms) with MG timing advance of 0ms
> for all serving cells in synchronous EN-DC, NR standalone operation
> (with single carrier, NR CA and synchronous NR-DC configuration) and
> synchronous NE-DC, and for serving cells in MCG in NR standalone
> operation (with asynchronous NR-DC configuration)
>
> \(b\) Measurement gap with MGL = N(ms) with MG timing advance of 0.5ms
> for all serving cells in synchronous EN-DC, NR standalone operation
> (with single carrier, NR CA and synchronous NR-DC configuration) and
> synchronous NE-DC, and for serving cells in MCG in NR standalone
> operation (with asynchronous NR-DC configuration)

\(c\) Measurement gap with MGL = N(ms) with MG timing advance of 0ms for
all serving cells in asynchronous EN-DC and asynchronous NE-DC, and for
serving cells in SCG in NR standalone operation (with asynchronous NR-DC
configuration)

\(d\) Measurement gap with MGL = N(ms) with MG timing advance of 0.5ms
for all serving cells in asynchronous EN-DC and asynchronous NE-DC, and
for serving cells in SCG in NR standalone operation (with asynchronous
NR-DC configuration)

Figure 9.1.2-1: Measurement GAP and total interruption time on serving
cells for EN-DC, NR standalone operation (with single carrier, NR CA and
NR-DC configuration) and NE-DC

The corresponding total number of interrupted slots on serving cells is
listed in Table 9.1.2-4 for all serving cells in synchronous EN-DC, NR
standalone (with single carrier, NR CA and synchronous NR-DC
configuration) and NE-DC, and for serving cells in MCG in NR standalone
operation (with asynchronous NR-DC configuration). The corresponding
total number of interrupted slots on serving cells is listed in Table
9.1.2-4a for asynchronous EN-DC, and for serving cells in SCG in NR
standalone operation (with asynchronous NR-DC configuration).

Table 9.1.2-4: Total number of interrupted slots on all serving cells
during MGL for Synchronous EN-DC, NR standalone operation (with single
carrier, NR CA and synchronous NR-DC configuration) and NE-DC, and on
all serving cells in MCG for NR standalone operation (with asynchronous
NR-DC configuration) with per-UE measurement gap or per-FR measurement
gap for FR1

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>NR</th>
<th>Total number of interrupted slots on serving cells</th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>SCS</td>
<td>When MG timing advance of 0ms is applied</td>
<td>When MG timing advance of 0.5ms is applied</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>(kHz)</td>
<td>MGL=20ms</td>
<td>MGL=10ms</td>
<td>MGL=6ms</td>
<td>MGL=4ms</td>
<td>MGL=3ms</td>
<td>MGL=20ms</td>
<td>MGL=10ms</td>
<td>MGL=6ms</td>
<td>MGL=4ms</td>
<td>MGL=3ms</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>15</td>
<td>20</td>
<td>10</td>
<td>6</td>
<td>4</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>21<sup>Note3</sup></td>
<td>11<sup>Note3</sup></td>
<td>7<sup>Note3</sup></td>
<td>5<sup>Note3</sup></td>
<td>4<sup>Note3</sup></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>30</td>
<td>40</td>
<td>20</td>
<td>12</td>
<td>8</td>
<td>6</td>
<td>40</td>
<td>20</td>
<td>12</td>
<td>8</td>
<td>6</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>60</td>
<td>80</td>
<td>40</td>
<td>24</td>
<td>16</td>
<td>12</td>
<td>80</td>
<td>40</td>
<td>24</td>
<td>16</td>
<td>12</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>120</td>
<td>160</td>
<td>80</td>
<td>48</td>
<td>32</td>
<td>24</td>
<td>160</td>
<td>80</td>
<td>48</td>
<td>32</td>
<td>24</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>NOTE 1: For Gap Pattern ID 0, 1, 2 and 3, total number of interrupted subframes on MCG is MGL subframes when MG timing advance of 0ms is applied, and (MGL+1) subframes when MG timing advance of 0.5ms is applied.</p>
<p>NOTE 2: NR SCS of 120 kHz is only applicable to the case with per-UE measurement gap.</p>
<p>NOTE 3: Non-overlapped half-slots occur before and after the measurement gap. Whether a Rel-15 UE can receive and/or transmit in those half-slots is up to UE implementation.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 9.1.2-4a: Total number of interrupted slots on serving cells
during MGL for Asynchronous EN-DC, and on all serving cells in SCG for
NR standalone operation (with asynchronous NR-DC configuration) with
per-UE measurement gap or per-FR measurement gap for FR1

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>NR</th>
<th>Total number of interrupted slots on serving cells</th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>SCS</td>
<td>When MG timing advance of 0ms is applied</td>
<td>When MG timing advance of 0.5ms is applied</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>(kHz)</td>
<td>MGL=20ms</td>
<td>MGL=10ms</td>
<td>MGL=6ms</td>
<td>MGL=4ms</td>
<td>MGL=3ms</td>
<td>MGL=20ms</td>
<td>MGL=10ms</td>
<td>MGL=6ms</td>
<td>MGL=4ms</td>
<td>MGL=3ms</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>15</td>
<td>21</td>
<td>11</td>
<td>7</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>4</td>
<td>21</td>
<td>11</td>
<td>7</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>4</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>30</td>
<td>41</td>
<td>21</td>
<td>13</td>
<td>9</td>
<td>7</td>
<td>41</td>
<td>21</td>
<td>13</td>
<td>9</td>
<td>7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>60</td>
<td>81</td>
<td>41</td>
<td>25</td>
<td>17</td>
<td>13</td>
<td>81</td>
<td>41</td>
<td>25</td>
<td>17</td>
<td>13</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>120</td>
<td>161</td>
<td>81</td>
<td>49</td>
<td>33</td>
<td>25</td>
<td>161</td>
<td>81</td>
<td>49</td>
<td>33</td>
<td>25</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>NOTE 1: For Gap Pattern ID 0, 1, 2 and 3, total number of interrupted subframes on MCG is MGL subframes when MG timing advance of 0ms is applied, and (MGL+1) subframes when MG timing advance of 0.5ms is applied.</p>
<p>NOTE 2: NR SCS of 120 kHz is only applicable to the case with per-UE measurement gap.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

In case that UE capable of per-FR measurement gap is configured with
per-FR measurement gap for FR2 serving cells, total number of
interrupted slots on FR2 serving cells during MGL is listed in
Table9.1.2-4b.

**Table 9.1.2-4b: Total number of interrupted slots on FR2 serving cells
during MGL for EN-DC, NR standalone operation (with single carrier, NR
CA and NR-DC configuration) and NE-DC with per-UE measurement gap or
per-FR measurement gap for FR2**

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>NR</th>
<th>Total number of interrupted slots on FR2 serving cells</th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>SCS</td>
<td>When MG timing advance of 0ms is applied</td>
<td>When MG timing advance of 0.25ms is applied</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>(kHz)</td>
<td><p>MGL=</p>
<p>20ms</p></td>
<td><p>MGL=</p>
<p>10ms</p></td>
<td><p>MGL=</p>
<p>5.5ms</p></td>
<td><p>MGL=</p>
<p>3.5ms</p></td>
<td><p>MGL=</p>
<p>1.5ms</p></td>
<td><p>MGL=</p>
<p>20ms</p></td>
<td><p>MGL=</p>
<p>10ms</p></td>
<td><p>MGL=</p>
<p>5.5ms</p></td>
<td><p>MGL=</p>
<p>3.5ms</p></td>
<td><p>MGL=</p>
<p>1.5ms</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>60</td>
<td>80</td>
<td>40</td>
<td>22</td>
<td>14</td>
<td>6</td>
<td>80</td>
<td>40</td>
<td>22</td>
<td>14</td>
<td>6</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>120</td>
<td>160</td>
<td>80</td>
<td>44</td>
<td>28</td>
<td>12</td>
<td>160</td>
<td>80</td>
<td>44</td>
<td>28</td>
<td>12</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>NOTE 1: The total number of interrupted slots is based on that SFN and subframe reference for per-FR gap in FR2 indicated by high layer parameter <em>refServCellIndicator</em> is an FR2 serving cell.</p>
<p>NOTE 2: Slot occurs before or after the measurement gap may be interrupted additionally if SFN and subframe reference for per-FR gap in FR2 indicated by high layer parameter refServCellIndicator is an FR1 serving cell.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

It is up to UE implementation whether or not the UE is able to conduct
transmission in the following slot(s),

\- when MGTA is not applied, in the L consecutive UL slots with respect
to the SCS of the UL carrier with the same slot indices as the DL slots
occurring immediately after measurement gap

\- when MGTA is applied and the SCS of the UL carrier is other than
15kHz, in the L consecutive UL slots with respect to the SCS of the UL
carrier with the same slot indices as the DL slots occurring immediately
after measurement gap

\- when MGTA is applied and the SCS of the UL carrier is 15kHz, in the L
consecutive UL slots with respect to the SCS of the UL carrier with the
same slot indices as the DL slots occurring immediately after the slot
partially overlapped with measurement gap

where UL slot denotes that all the symbols in the slot are uplink
symbols, and L=1 if for the UL transmission is less than the length of
one slot; L=2 otherwise.

Note: Network is supposed to take into account the possible difference
between the estimated TA at network and actual TA at UE when scheduling
UE in the above slot(s).

Table 9.1.2-5: (Void)

#### 9.1.2.1 EN-DC: Measurement Gap Sharing

For E-UTRA-NR dual connectivity UE configured with per-UE measurement
gap, measurement gap sharing shall be applied when UE requires
measurement gaps to identify and measure cells on intra-frequency
carriers or when SMTC configured for intra-frequency measurement are
fully overlapping with per-UE measurement gaps, and when UE requires
measurement gaps to identify and measure cells on inter-frequency
carriers for both SSB and CSI-RS based L3 measurement or when all of
SMTC configured for inter-frequency SSB based measurement without
measurement gaps are fully overlapping with per-UE measurement gaps,
E-UTRA gap-needed inter-frequency carriers and inter-RAT UTRAN carriers
and/or inter-RAT GSM carriers.

For E-UTRA-NR dual connectivity UE configured with per-FR1 measurement
gap, measurement gap sharing shall be applied when UE requires
measurement gaps to identify and measure cells on FR1 intra-frequency
carriers or when SMTC configured for FR1 intra-frequency measurement are
fully overlapping with per-FR1 measurement gaps, and when UE requires
measurement gaps to identify and measure cells on FR1 inter-frequency
carriers for both SSB and CSI-RS based L3 measurement or when all of
SMTC configured for inter-frequency SSB based measurement without
measurement gaps are fully overlapping with per-FR1 measurement gaps,
E-UTRA gap-needed inter-frequency carriers, inter-RAT UTRAN carriers
and/or inter-RAT GSM carriers.

For E-UTRA-NR dual connectivity UE configured with per-FR2 measurement
gap, measurement gap sharing shall be applied when UE requires
measurement gaps to identify and measure cells on FR2 intra-frequency
carriers or when SMTC configured for FR2 intra-frequency measurement are
fully overlapping with per-FR2 measurement gaps, and when UE requires
measurement gaps to identify and measure cells on FR2 inter-frequency
carriers for both SSB and CSI-RS based L3 measurement, or when all of
SMTC configured for inter-frequency SSB based measurement without
measurement gaps are fully overlapping with per-FR2 measurement gaps.

When network signals "01", "10" or "11" with RRC parameter
*MeasGapSharingScheme* \[2\]\[16\]and the value of X is defined as in
Table 9.1.2.1-1, and

\- K~intra~ = 1 / X \* 100,

\- K~inter~ = 1 / (100 -- X) \* 100,

When network signals "00" indicating equal splitting gap sharing, X is
not applied.

The RRC parameter *MeasGapSharingScheme* shall be applied to the
calculation of carrier specific scaling factor as specified in clause
9.1.5.2.1.

Table 9.1.2.1-1: Value of parameter X for EN-DC measurement gap sharing

  *measGapSharingScheme*                                                                                                                                                                                   Value of X (%)
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  '00'                                                                                                                                                                                                     Equal splitting
  '01'                                                                                                                                                                                                     25
  '10'                                                                                                                                                                                                     50
  '11'                                                                                                                                                                                                     75
  Note: It is left to UE implementation to determine which measurement gap sharing scheme in the table *to be applied*, when *MeasGapSharingScheme is absent and there is* no stored value in the field.   

#### 9.1.2.1a SA: Measurement Gap Sharing

For NR standalone UE without NR-DC operation and configured with per-UE
measurement gap, measurement gap sharing shall be applies when UE
requires measurement gaps to identify and measure cells on
intra-frequency carriers or when SMTC configured for intra-frequency
measurement are fully overlapping with per-UE measurement gaps, and when
UE requires measurement gaps to identify and measure cells on
inter-frequency carriers for both SSB and CSI-RS based L3 measurement,
or when all of SMTC configured for inter-frequency SSB based measurement
without measurement gaps are fully overlapping with per-UE measurement
gaps, and/or inter-RAT E-UTRAN carriers, and/or inter-RAT UTRAN carriers
for SRVCC, and when UE is configured to measure positioning frequency
layers.

For NR standalone UE without NR-DC operation and configured with per-FR1
measurement gap, measurement gap sharing shall be applied when UE
requires measurement gaps to identify and measure cells on FR1
intra-frequency carriers or when SMTC configured for FR1 intra-frequency
measurement are fully overlapping with per-FR1 measurement gaps, and
when UE requires measurement gaps to identify and measure cells on FR1
inter-frequency carriers for both SSB and CSI-RS based L3 measurement
and/or inter-RAT E-UTRAN carriers, or when all of SMTC configured for
inter-frequency SSB based measurement without measurement gaps are fully
overlapping with per-FR1 measurement gaps, and/or inter-RAT UTRAN
carriers for SRVCC, and when UE is configured to measure positioning
frequency layers in FR1.

For NR standalone UE without NR-DC operation and configured with per-FR2
measurement gap, measurement gap sharing shall be applied when UE
requires measurement gaps to identify and measure cells on FR2
intra-frequency carriers or when SMTC configured for FR2 intra-frequency
measurement are fully overlapping with per-FR2 measurement gaps, and
when UE requires measurement gaps to identify and measure cells on FR2
inter-frequency carriers for both SSB and CSI-RS based L3 measurement,
or when all of SMTC configured for inter-frequency SSB based measurement
without measurement gaps are fully overlapping with per-FR2 measurement
gaps, and when UE is configured to measure positioning frequency layers
in FR2.

When network signals "01", "10" or "11" with RRC parameter
*MeasGapSharingScheme* \[2\] and the value of X is defined as in Table
9.1.2.1a-1, and

\- K~intra~ = 1 / X \* 100,

> \- K~inter~ = 1 / (100 -- X) \* 100,
>
> When network signals "00" indicating equal splitting gap sharing, X is
> not applied.
>
> The RRC parameter *MeasGapSharingScheme* shall be applied to the
> calculation of carrier specific scaling factor as specified in clause
> 9.1.5.2.2.

Table 9.1.2.1a-1: Value of parameter X for NR standalone measurement gap
sharing

  *measGapSharingScheme*                                                                                                                                                                                   Value of X (%)
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  '00'                                                                                                                                                                                                     Equal splitting
  '01'                                                                                                                                                                                                     25
  '10'                                                                                                                                                                                                     50
  '11'                                                                                                                                                                                                     75
  Note: It is left to UE implementation to determine which measurement gap sharing scheme in the table *to be applied*, when *MeasGapSharingScheme is absent and there is* no stored value in the field.   

#### 9.1.2.1b NE-DC: Measurement Gap Sharing

For NR-E-UTRA dual connectivity UE configured with per-UE measurement
gap, measurement gap sharing shall be applied when UE requires
measurement gaps to identify and measure cells on intra-frequency
carriers or when SMTC configured for intra-frequency measurement are
fully overlapping with per-UE measurement gaps, and when UE requires
measurement gaps to identify and measure cells on inter-frequency
carriers for both SSB and CSI-RS based L3 measurement, E-UTRA gap-needed
inter-frequency carriers, or when all of SMTC configured for
inter-frequency SSB based measurement without measurement gaps are fully
overlapping with per-UE measurement gaps, and/or inter-RAT E-UTRA
carriers, and/or inter-RAT UTRAN carriers for SRVCC, and when UE is
configured to measure positioning frequency layers.

For NR-E-UTRA dual connectivity UE configured with per-FR1 measurement
gap, measurement gap sharing shall be applied when UE requires
measurement gaps to identify and measure cells on FR1 intra-frequency
carriers or when SMTC configured for FR1 intra-frequency measurement are
fully overlapping with per-FR1 measurement gaps, and when UE requires
measurement gaps to identify and measure cells on inter-frequency
carriers for both SSB and CSI-RS based L3 measurement, or when all of
SMTC configured for inter-frequency SSB based measurement without
measurement gaps are fully overlapping with per-FR1 measurement gaps,
E-UTRA gap-needed inter-frequency carriers, and/or inter-RAT E-UTRA
carriers, and/or inter-RAT UTRAN carriers for SRVCC, and when UE is
configured to measure positioning frequency layers in FR1.

For NR-E-UTRA dual connectivity UE configured with per-FR2 measurement
gap, measurement gap sharing shall be applied when UE requires
measurement gaps to identify and measure cells on FR2 intra-frequency
carriers or when SMTC configured for FR2 intra-frequency measurement are
fully overlapping with per-FR2 measurement gaps, and when UE requires
measurement gaps to identify and measure cells on FR2 inter-frequency
carriers for both SSB and CSI-RS based L3 measurement, or when all of
SMTC configured for inter-frequency SSB based measurement without
measurement gaps are fully overlapping with per-FR2 measurement gaps,
and when UE is configured to measure positioning frequency layers in
FR2.

When network signals "01", "10" or "11" with RRC parameter
*measGapSharingConfig* \[2\]\[16\] and the value of X is defined as in
Table 9.1.2.1b-1, and

\- K~intra~ = 1 / X \* 100,

\- K~inter~ = 1 / (100 -- X) \* 100,

> When network signals "00" indicating equal splitting gap sharing, X is
> not applied.
>
> The RRC parameter *MeasGapSharingScheme* shall be applied to the
> calculation of carrier specific scaling factor as specified in clause
> 9.1.5.2.3.

Table 9.1.2.1b-1: Value of parameter X for NE-DC measurement gap sharing

  *measGapSharingScheme*                                                                                                                                                                                   Value of X (%)
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  '00'                                                                                                                                                                                                     Equal splitting
  '01'                                                                                                                                                                                                     25
  '10'                                                                                                                                                                                                     50
  '11'                                                                                                                                                                                                     75
  Note: It is left to UE implementation to determine which measurement gap sharing scheme in the table *to be applied*, when *MeasGapSharingScheme is absent and there is* no stored value in the field.   

#### 9.1.2.1c NR-DC: Measurement Gap Sharing

For UE with NR-DC operation and configured with per-UE measurement gap,
measurement gap sharing shall be applied when UE requires measurement
gaps to identify and measure cells on intra-frequency carriers or when
SMTC configured for intra-frequency measurement are fully overlapping
with per-UE measurement gaps, and when UE requires measurement gaps to
identify and measure cells on inter-frequency carriers for both SSB and
CSI-RS based L3 measurement, and/or inter-RAT E-UTRAN carriers, or when
all of SMTC configured for inter-frequency SSB based measurement without
measurement gaps are fully overlapping with per-UE measurement gaps,
and/or inter-RAT UTRAN carriers for SRVCC, and when UE is configured to
measure positioning frequency layers.

For UE with NR-DC operation and configured with per-FR1 measurement gap,
measurement gap sharing shall be applied when UE requires measurement
gaps to identify and measure cells on FR1 intra-frequency carriers or
when SMTC configured for FR1 intra-frequency measurement are fully
overlapping with per-FR1 measurement gaps, and when UE requires
measurement gaps to identify and measure cells on FR1 inter-frequency
carriers for both SSB and CSI-RS based L3 measurement and/or inter-RAT
E-UTRAN carriers, or when all of SMTC configured for inter-frequency SSB
based measurement without measurement gaps are fully overlapping with
per-FR1 measurement gaps, and/or inter-RAT UTRAN carriers for SRVCC, and
when UE is configured to measure positioning frequency layers in FR1.

For UE with NR-DC operation and configured with per-FR2 measurement gap,
measurement gap sharing shall be applied when UE requires measurement
gaps to identify and measure cells on FR2 intra-frequency carriers or
when SMTC configured for FR2 intra-frequency measurement are fully
overlapping with per-FR2 measurement gaps, and when UE requires
measurement gaps to identify and measure cells on FR2 inter-frequency
carriers for both SSB and CSI-RS based L3 measurement, or when all of
SMTC configured for inter-frequency SSB based measurement without
measurement gaps are fully overlapping with per-FR2 measurement gaps,
and when UE is configured to measure positioning frequency layers in
FR2.

When network signals "01", "10" or "11" with RRC parameter
*measGapSharingConfig* \[2\] and the value of X is defined as in Table
9.1.2.1c-1, and

\- K~intra~ = 1 / X \* 100,

\- K~inter~ = 1 / (100 -- X) \* 100,

> When network signals "00" indicating equal splitting gap sharing, X is
> not applied.
>
> The RRC parameter *MeasGapSharingScheme* shall be applied to the
> calculation of carrier specific scaling factor as specified in clause
> 9.1.5.2..4.

Table 9.1.2.1c-1: Value of parameter X for NR-DC measurement gap sharing

  *measGapSharingConfig*                                                                                                                                                                                   Value of X (%)
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  '00'                                                                                                                                                                                                     Equal splitting
  '01'                                                                                                                                                                                                     25
  '10'                                                                                                                                                                                                     50
  '11'                                                                                                                                                                                                     75
  Note: It is left to UE implementation to determine which measurement gap sharing scheme in the table *to be applied*, when *MeasGapSharingScheme is absent and there is* no stored value in the field.   

### 9.1.3 UE Measurement capability

#### 9.1.3.1 EN-DC: Monitoring of multiple layers using gaps

The requirements in this clause are applicable for UE capable of and
configured with the EN-DC operation mode.

When monitoring of multiple inter-frequency E-UTRAN, inter-RAT NR, GSM,
UTRA FDD and UTRA TDD carriers as configured by E-UTRA PCell, and
inter-frequency NR carriers (with or without CCA) as configured by
PSCell using gaps (or without using gaps provided the UE supports such
capability or the effective MGRP is applied for per-FR measurement gap
capable UE) is configured, the UE shall be capable of performing one
measurement of the configured measurement type (SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ,
SS-SINR, CSI-RSRP, CSI-RSRQ, CSI-SINR, SFTD, E-UTRAN RSRP, E-UTRAN RSRQ,
E-UTRAN RS-SINR measurements, UTRAN TDD P-CCPCH RSCP, UTRAN FDD CPICH
measurements, GSM carrier RSSI, etc.) of detected cells on all the
layers.

For UE configured with the EN-DC operation, the effective total number
of frequencies excluding the frequencies of the PSCell, SCells, E-UTRA
PCell, and E-UTRA SCells being monitored is N~freq,\ EN-DC~, which is
defined as:

N~freq,\ EN-DC~ = N~freq,\ EN-DC,\ NR~ + N~freq,\ EN-DC,\ E-UTRA~+
N~freq,\ EN-DC,\ UTRA~ + M~EN-DC,\ GSM~,

where

N~freq,\ EN-DC,\ E-UTRA~ is the number of E-UTRA inter-frequency
carriers being monitored (FDD and TDD) as configured by E-UTRA PCell or
via LPP \[22\],

N~freq,\ EN-DC,\ NR~ ≤ N~freq,\ EN-DC,\ NR,\ inter-RAT~ +
N~freq,\ EN-DC,\ NR,\ inter-freq~

where

N~freq,\ EN-DC,\ NR,\ inter-RAT~ is the number of NR inter-RAT carriers
excluding NR serving carrier(s) being monitored as configured by E-UTRA
PCell \[15\],

N~freq,\ EN-DC,\ NR,\ inter-freq~ is the number of NR inter-frequency
carriers being monitored as configured by PSCell,

N~freq,\ EN-DC,\ UTRA~ is the number of UTRA inter-RAT carriers being
monitored as configured by E-UTRA PCell (FDD and TDD).

M~EN-DC,\ GSM~ is an integer which is a function of the number of GSM
inter-RAT carriers as configured by E-UTRA PCell on which measurements
are being performed. M~EN-DC,\ GSM~ is equal to 0 if no GSM carrier is
being monitored. For a MGRP of 40 ms, M~EN-DC,\ GSM~ is equal to 1 if
cells on up to 32 GSM carriers are being measured. For a MGRP of 80 ms,
M~EN-DC,\ GSM~ is equal to ceil(N~carriers,GSM~ /20) where
N~carriers,GSM~ is the number of GSM carriers on which cells are being
measured.

#### 9.1.3.1a SA: Monitoring of multiple layers using gaps

The requirements in this clause are applicable for UE configured with SA
NR operation mode.

When monitoring of multiple inter-RAT E-UTRAN carriers, inter-frequency
NR carriers (with or without CCA) and inter-RAT UTRA FDD carriers using
gaps (or without using gaps provided the UE supports such capability or
the effective MGRP is applied for per-FR measurement gap capable UE) is
configured by PCell, the UE shall be capable of performing one
measurement of the configured measurement type (SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ,
SS-SINR, CSI-RSRP, CSI-RSRQ, CSI-SINR, E-UTRAN RSRP, E-UTRAN RSRQ,
E-UTRAN RS-SINR measurements, UTRAN FDD CPICH measurement, etc.) of
detected cells on all the layers.

For UE configured with the NR SA operation, the effective total number
of frequencies, excluding the frequencies of the PCell, PSCell and
SCells being monitored, is N~freq,\ SA~, which is defined as:

N~freq,\ SA~ = N~freq,\ SA,\ NR~ + N~freq,\ SA,\ E-UTRA~+
N~freq,\ SA,\ UTRA~,

where

N~freq,\ SA,\ E-UTRA~ is the number of E-UTRA inter-RAT carriers being
monitored (FDD and TDD) as configured by PCell or via LPP \[22\],

\- N~freq,\ SA,\ UTRA~ is the number of UTRA FDD inter-RAT carriers
being monitored as configured by PCell,

N~freq,\ SA,\ NR~ is the number of NR inter-frequency carriers being
monitored as configured by PCell.

#### 9.1.3.1b NE-DC: Monitoring of multiple layers using gaps

The requirements in this clause are applicable for UE capable of and
configured with the NE-DC operation mode.

UTRAN carriers as configured by PCell, inter-RAT UTRA FDD carriers as
configured by PCell, and inter-frequency NR carriers as configured by
PCell using gaps (or without using gaps provided the UE supports such
capability or the effective MGRP is applied for per-FR measurement gap
capable UE) is configured, the UE shall be capable of performing one
measurement of the configured measurement type (SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ,
SS-SINR, CSI-RSRP, CSI-RSRQ, CSI-SINR, SFTD, E-UTRAN RSRP, E-UTRAN RSRQ,
and E-UTRAN RS-SINR measurements, UTRAN FDD CPICH measurements, etc.) of
detected cells on all the layers.

For UE configured with the NE-DC operation, the effective total number
of frequencies excluding the frequencies of the PCell, SCells, E-UTRA
PSCell, and E-UTRA SCells being monitored is N~freq,\ NE-DC~, which is
defined as:

N~freq,\ NE-DC~ = N~freq,\ NE-DC,\ NR~ + N~freq,\ NE-DC,\ E-UTRA~+
N~freq,\ NE-DC,\ UTRA~,

where

N~freq,\ NE-DC,\ NR~ is the number of NR inter-frequency carriers being
monitored as configured by PCell,

N~freq,\ NE-DC,\ UTRA~ is the number of UTRA FDD inter-RAT carriers
being monitored as configured by PCell,

N~freq,\ NE-DC,\ E-UTRA~ ≤ N~freq,\ NE-DC,\ E-UTRA,\ inter-RAT~ +
N~freq,\ NE-DC,\ E-UTRA,\ inter-freq~

where

N~freq,\ NE-DC,\ E-UTRA,\ inter-RAT~ is the number of E-UTRA inter-RAT
carriers (FDD and TDD) excluding E-UTRA serving carrier(s) being
monitored as configured by PCell or via LPP \[22\],

N~freq,\ NE-DC,\ E-UTRA,\ inter-freq~ is the number of E-UTRA
inter-frequency carriers (FDD and TDD) being monitored as configured by
E-UTRA PSCell \[15\] or via LPP \[22\].

#### 9.1.3.1c NR-DC: Monitoring of multiple layers using gaps

The requirements in this clause are applicable for UE configured with
NR-DC operation mode.

When monitoring of multiple inter-RAT E-UTRAN carriers and
inter-frequency NR carriers using gaps (or without using gaps provided
the UE supports such capability or the effective MGRP is applied for
per-FR measurement gap capable UE) as configured by PCell, inter-RAT
UTRA FDD carriers as configured by PCell, and inter-frequency NR
carriers as configured by PSCell is configured, the UE shall be capable
of performing one measurement of the configured measurement type
(SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ, SS-SINR, CSI-RSRP, CSI-RSRQ, CSI-SINR, E-UTRAN RSRP,
E-UTRAN RSRQ, E-UTRAN RS-SINR measurements, UTRAN FDD CPICH
measurements, etc.) of detected cells on all the layers.

For UE configured with the NR-DC operation, the effective total number
of frequencies, excluding the frequencies of the PCell, PSCell and
SCells being monitored, is N~freq,\ NR-DC~, which is defined as:

N~freq,\ NR-DC~ = N~freq,\ NR-DC,\ NR~ + N~freq,\ NR-DC,\ E-UTRA~+
N~freq,\ NR-DC,\ UTRA~,

where

\- N~freq,\ NR-DC,\ E-UTRA~ is the number of E-UTRA inter-RAT carriers
being monitored (FDD and TDD) as configured by PCell or via LPP \[22\].

\- N~freq,\ NE-DC,\ UTRA~ is the number of UTRA FDD inter-RAT carriers
being monitored as configured by PCell,

\- N~freq,\ NR-DC,\ NR~ is the number of NR inter-frequency carriers
being monitored as configured by PCell and PSCell.

#### 9.1.3.2 EN-DC: Maximum allowed layers for multiple monitoring

If a UE is configured with EN-DC operation, the UE shall be capable of
monitoring at least:

\- Depending on UE capability, 7 NR SSB inter-frequency carriers
configured by PSCell, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 8 NR inter-frequency carriers including
SSB and CSI-RS in total configured by PSCell, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 7 NR SSB inter-RAT carriers excluding NR
serving carrier(s) configured by E-UTRA PCell \[15\], and

\- Depending on UE capability, 6 E-UTRA TDD inter-frequency carriers
configured by E-UTRA PCell \[15\], and

\- Depending on UE capability, 6 E-UTRA FDD inter-frequency carriers
configured by E-UTRA PCell \[15\], and

\- Depending on UE capability, 3 FDD UTRA carriers, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 3 TDD UTRA carriers, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 32 GSM carriers (one GSM layer
corresponds to 32 carriers), and

\- Depending on UE capability, 1 E-UTRA FDD inter-frequency carrier for
RSTD measurements configured via LPP \[22\], and

\- Depending on UE capability, 1 E-UTRA TDD inter-frequency carrier for
RSTD measurements configured via LPP \[22\].

*In addition to the requirements defined above,* the UE shall be capable
of monitoring a total of at least 13 effective carrier frequency layers
comprising of any above defined combination of NR, E-UTRA FDD, E-UTRA
TDD, UTRA FDD, UTRA TDD and GSM (one GSM layer corresponds to 32
carriers) layers. The UE shall be capable of monitoring a total of at
least 7 + N~CSI~ effective NR carrier frequency layers excluding NR
serving carrier(s), comprising of any above defined combination of NR
inter-RAT carriers excluding NR serving carrier(s) configured by E-UTRA
PCell and NR inter-frequency carriers configured by PSCell, N~CSI~
equals 1 if UE supports CSI-RS based L3 measurement, and N~CSI~ =0
otherwise.

*The number of SSB frequency layers configured by* PSCell *equals to the
total number of MOs with*

*- ssb-ConfigMobility* configured, or

*- ssb-ConfigMobility* not configured *but csi-rs-ResourceConfigMobility
configured with associatedSSB*.

If *ssbfrequency, smtc1, smtc2* and *ssbSubcarrierSpacing* are same in
multiple MOs, the multiple MOs are counted as one SSB frequency layer.

The number of CSI-RS frequency layers equals to the number of MOs with
*csi-rs-ResourceConfigMobility* configured assuming single MO is
configured per frequency layer.

When the E-UTRA PCell and PSCell configures the same NR carrier
frequency layer to be monitored by the UE in synchronous intra-band
EN-DC, this layer shall be counted only once to the total number of
effective carrier frequency layers provided that the SFN-s and slot
boundaries are aligned, unless the configured NR carrier frequency
layers to be monitored have

\- different RSSI measurement resources or

\- different *deriveSSB-IndexFromCell* indications or

\- different SMTC configurations or

\- different *ssb-PositionQCL-Common-r16* indications or cell list of
*ssb-PositionQCL* on NR carrier frequency layer with CCA or

\- different *rmtc-Config-r16* indication on NR carrier frequency layer
with CCA.

*Note 1:* The E-UTRA-NR dual connectivity capable UE configured with
PSCell shall fulfil the requirements defined in only one of clause
9.1.3.2 and clause 8.1.2.1.1b.1 of TS 36.133 \[15\].

#### 9.1.3.2a SA: Maximum allowed layers for multiple monitoring

If a UE is configured with SA NR operation mode, the UE shall be capable
of monitoring at least:

\- Depending on UE capability, 7 NR SSB inter-frequency carriers
configured by PCell, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 8 NR inter-frequency carriers including
SSB and CSI-RS in total configured by PCell, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 7 E-UTRA TDD inter-RAT carriers
configured by PCell, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 7 E-UTRA FDD inter-RAT carriers
configured by PCell, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 3 UTRA FDD inter-RAT carriers configured
by PCell, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 1 E-UTRA FDD inter-RAT carrier for RSTD
measurements configured via LPP \[22\], and

\- Depending on UE capability, 1 E-UTRA TDD inter-RAT carrier for RSTD
measurements configured via LPP \[22\].

*In addition to the requirements defined above,* the UE shall be capable
of monitoring a total of at least \[13\] effective carrier frequency
layers comprising of any above defined combination of NR, E-UTRA FDD,
E-UTRA TDD and UTRA FDD layers.

*The number of SSB frequency layers equals to the total number of MOs
with*

*- ssb-ConfigMobility* configured, or

*- ssb-ConfigMobility* not configured *but csi-rs-ResourceConfigMobility
configured with associatedSSB*.

If *ssbfrequency, smtc1, smtc2* and *ssbSubcarrierSpacing* are same in
multiple MOs, the multiple MOs are counted as one SSB frequency layer.

The number of CSI-RS frequency layers equals to the number of MOs with
*csi-rs-ResourceConfigMobility* configured assuming single MO is
configured per frequency layer.

#### 9.1.3.2b NE-DC: Maximum allowed layers for multiple monitoring

If a UE is configured with NE-DC operation mode, the UE shall be capable
of monitoring at least:

\- Depending on UE capability, 7 NR SSB inter-frequency carriers
configured by PCell, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 8 NR inter-frequency carriers including
SSB and CSI-RS in total configured by PCell, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 6 E-UTRA TDD inter-RAT carriers excluding
E-UTRA serving carriers configured by PCell, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 6 E-UTRA FDD inter-RAT carriers excluding
E-UTRA serving carriers configured by PCell, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 6 E-UTRA TDD inter-frequency carriers
configured by E-UTRA PSCell \[15\], and

\- Depending on UE capability, 6 E-UTRA FDD inter-frequency carriers
configured by E-UTRA PSCell \[15\], and

\- Depending on UE capability, 3 UTRA FDD inter-RAT carriers configured
by PCell, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 1 E-UTRA FDD inter-frequency carrier for
RSTD measurements configured via LPP \[22\], and

\- Depending on UE capability, 1 E-UTRA TDD inter-frequency carrier for
RSTD measurements configured via LPP \[22\].

*In addition to the requirements defined above,* the UE shall be capable
of monitoring a total of at least 13 effective carrier frequency layers
comprising of any above defined combination of NR, E-UTRA FDD, E-UTRA
TDD and UTRA FDD layers. The UE shall be capable of monitoring a total
of at least 6 effective E-UTRA carrier frequency layers, excluding
E-UTRA serving carrier(s), comprising of any above defined combination
of E-UTRA inter-RAT carriers excluding E-UTRA serving carrier(s)
configured by PCell and E-UTRA inter-frequency carriers configured by
E-UTRA PSCell.

*The number of SSB frequency layers* configured by PCell *equals to the
total number of MOs with*

*- ssb-ConfigMobility* configured, or

*- ssb-ConfigMobility* not configured *but csi-rs-ResourceConfigMobility
configured with associatedSSB*.

If *ssbfrequency, smtc1, smtc2* and *ssbSubcarrierSpacing* are same in
multiple MOs, the multiple MOs are counted as one SSB frequency layer.

The number of CSI-RS frequency layers equals to the number of MOs with
*csi-rs-ResourceConfigMobility* configured assuming single MO is
configured per frequency layer.

#### 9.1.3.2c NR-DC: Maximum allowed layers for multiple monitoring

If a UE is configured with NR-DC operation, the UE shall be capable of
monitoring at least:

\- Depending on UE capability, 7 NR SSB inter-frequency carriers
configured by PCell, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 8 NR inter-frequency carriers including
SSB and CSI-RS in total configured by PCell, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 7 NR SSB inter-frequency carriers
configured by PSCell, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 8 NR inter-frequency carriers including
SSB and CSI-RS in total configured by PSCell, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 7 E-UTRA TDD inter-RAT carriers
configured by PCell, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 7 E-UTRA FDD inter-RAT carriers
configured by PCell, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 3 UTRA FDD inter-RAT carriers configured
by PCell, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 1 E-UTRA FDD inter-RAT carrier for RSTD
measurements configured via LPP \[22\], and

\- Depending on UE capability, 1 E-UTRA TDD inter-RAT carrier for RSTD
measurements configured via LPP \[22\].

*In addition to the requirements defined above,* the UE shall be capable
of monitoring a total of at least 13 effective carrier frequency layers
comprising of any above defined combination of NR, E-UTRA FDD, E-UTRA
TDD and UTRA FDD layers. The UE shall be capable of monitoring a total
of at least 7 + N~CSI~ effective NR carrier frequency layers excluding
NR serving carrier(s), which are configured by PCell and PSCell, N~CSI~
equals 1 if UE supports CSI-RS based L3 measurement, and N~CSI~ =0
otherwise.

The number of SSB frequency layers equals to the total number of MOs
with

*- ssb-ConfigMobility* configured, or

*- ssb-ConfigMobility* not configured *but csi-rs-ResourceConfigMobility
configured with associatedSSB*.

If *ssbfrequency, smtc1, smtc2* and *ssbSubcarrierSpacing* are same in
multiple MOs, the multiple MOs are counted as one SSB frequency layer.

The number of CSI-RS frequency layers equals to the number of MOs with
*csi-rs-ResourceConfigMobility* configured assuming single MO is
configured per frequency layer.

When PCell and PSCell configures the same NR carrier frequency layer to
be monitored by the UE in NR-DC, this layer shall be counted only once
to the total number of effective carrier frequency layers provided that
the SFN-s and slot boundaries are aligned, unless the configured NR
carrier frequency layers to be monitored have

\- different RSSI measurement resources or

\- different *deriveSSB-IndexFromCell* indications or

\- different SMTC configurations or

\- different *ssb-PositionQCL-Common-r16* indications or cell list of
*ssb-PositionQCL* on NR carrier frequency layer with CCA or

\- different *rmtc-Config-r16* indication on NR carrier frequency layer
with CCA.

#### 9.1A.3.2 Void

### 9.1.3A UE Measurement capability under operation mode with CCA

#### 9.1.3A.1 EN-DC: Monitoring of multiple layers using gaps under CCA

The requirements in clause 9.1.3.1 are also applicable for the UE
capable of and configured with the EN-DC operation mode with CCA on
PSCC.

#### 9.1.3A.1A SA: Monitoring of multiple layers using gaps under CCA

The requirements in clause 9.1.3.1a are also applicable for UE
configured with SA NR operation mode with CCA on PCC.

#### 9.1.3A.2 EN-DC: Maximum allowed layers for multiple monitoring under CCA

If a UE is configured with EN-DC operation when CCA is used on PSCell,
the UE shall be capable of monitoring at least:

\- Depending on UE capability, 7 NR inter-frequency carriers configured
by PScell, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 7 NR inter-RAT carriers excluding NR
serving carrier(s) configured by E-UTRA PCell \[15\], and

\- Depending on UE capability, 6 E-UTRA TDD inter-frequency carriers
configured by E-UTRA PCell \[15\], and

\- Depending on UE capability, 6 E-UTRA FDD inter-frequency carriers
configured by E-UTRA PCell \[15\], and

\- Depending on UE capability, 3 FDD UTRA carriers, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 3 TDD UTRA carriers, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 32 GSM carriers (one GSM layer
corresponds to 32 carriers), and

*In addition to the requirements defined above,* the UE shall be capable
of monitoring a total of at least 13 effective carrier frequency layers
comprising of any above defined combination of NR, E-UTRA FDD, E-UTRA
TDD, UTRA FDD, UTRA TDD and GSM (one GSM layer corresponds to 32
carriers) layers. The UE shall be capable of monitoring a total of at
least 7 effective NR carrier frequency layers excluding NR serving
carrier(s), comprising of any above defined combination of NR inter-RAT
carriers excluding NR serving carrier(s) configured by E-UTRA PCell and
NR inter-frequency carriers configured by PSCell.

When the E-UTRA PCell and PSCell configures the same NR carrier
frequency layer to be monitored by the UE in synchronous intra-band
EN-DC, this layer shall be counted only once to the total number of
effective carrier frequency layers provided that the SFN-s and slot
boundaries are aligned, unless the configured NR carrier frequency
layers to be monitored have

\- different RSSI measurement resources or

\- different *deriveSSB-IndexFromCell* indications or

\- different SMTC configurations or

\- different *ssb-PositionQCL-Common-r16* indications or cell list of
*ssb-PositionQCL* on NR carrier frequency layer with CCA or

\- different *rmtc-Config-r16* indication on NR carrier frequency layer
with CCA.

#### 9.1A.3.2a Void

#### 9.1.3A.2A SA: Maximum allowed layers for multiple monitoring under CCA

If a UE is configured with SA NR operation mode when CCA is used on
PCell or SCell only, the UE shall be capable of monitoring at least:

\- Depending on UE capability, 7 NR inter-frequency carriers configured
by PCell, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 7 E-UTRA TDD inter-RAT carriers
configured by PCell, and

\- Depending on UE capability, 7 E-UTRA FDD inter-RAT carriers
configured by PCell, and

*In addition to the requirements defined above,* the UE shall be capable
of monitoring a total of at least \[13\] effective carrier frequency
layers comprising of any above defined combination of NR, E-UTRA FDD and
E-UTRA TDD layers.

### 9.1.4 Capabilities for Support of Event Triggering and Reporting Criteria

#### 9.1.4.1 Introduction

This clause contains requirements on UE capabilities for support of
event triggering and reporting criteria. As long as the measurement
configuration does not exceed the requirements stated in clause 9.1.4.2,
the UE shall meet all other performance requirements defined in clause 9
and clause 10. The requirements in this clause also apply for a UE in
EN-DC with PSCell on a carrier frequency with CCA or SA NR with PCell on
a carrier frequency with CCA.

The UE can be requested to make measurements under different measurement
identities defined in TS 38.331 \[2\]. Each measurement identity
corresponds to either event-based reporting, periodic reporting, or no
reporting. In case of event-based reporting, each measurement identity
is associated with an event triggering criterion. In case of periodic
reporting, a measurement identity is associated with one periodic
reporting criterion. In case of no reporting, a measurement identity is
associated with one no reporting criterion.

The purpose of this clause is to set some limits on the number of
different event triggering, periodic, and no reporting criteria the UE
may be requested to track in parallel.

#### 9.1.4.2 Requirements

In this clause a reporting criterion corresponds to either one event (in
the case of event-based reporting), or one periodic reporting criterion
(in case of periodic reporting), or one no reporting criterion (in case
of no reporting). For event-based reporting, each instance of event,
with the same or different event identities, is counted as separate
reporting criterion in Table 9.1.4.2-1.

The UE shall be able to support in parallel per category up to E~cat~
reporting criteria according to Table 9.1.4.2-1. For the measurement
categories belonging to intra-frequency, inter-frequency, and inter-RAT
measurements (i.e. without counting other categories that the UE shall
always support in parallel), the UE need not support more than the total
number of reporting criteria as follows:

\- For UE configured with EN-DC:
$E_{\text{cat},\text{EN} - \text{DC},\text{NR}} + E_{\text{cat},\text{EN} - \text{DC},E - \text{UTRA}}$,
where

$E_{cat,EN - DC,NR} = 10 + 9 \times n$ is the total number of NR
reporting criteria configured by PSCell (NR intra- and inter-frequency
reporting criteria) and by E-UTRA PCell on NR serving frequencies (NR
intra-frequency reporting criteria) applicable for UE configured with
EN-DC according to Table 9.1.4.2-1, and n is the number of configured NR
serving frequencies, including PSCell and SCells carrier frequencies,

$E_{cat,EN - DC,E - \text{UTRA}}$ is the total number of reporting
criteria configured by E-UTRA PCell except PSCell and SCells carrier
frequencies, as specified in TS 36.133 \[15\] for UE configured with
EN-DC.

\- For UE configured with
NE-DC:$\ E_{\text{cat},\text{NE} - \text{DC},\text{NR}} + E_{\text{cat},\text{NE} - \text{DC},E - \text{UTRA}}$,
where

$E_{cat,NE - DC,NR} = 10 + 9 \times n$ is the total number of NR
reporting criteria according to Table 9.1.4.2-1, and n is the number of
configured NR serving frequencies, including PCell and SCells carrier
frequencies,

$E_{cat,NE - DC,E - \text{UTRA}} = E_{cat,NE - DC,E - UTRA,inter - \text{RAT}} + E_{cat,NE - DC,E - UTRA,intra - \text{RAT}}$,
where

$E_{cat,NE - DC,E - UTRA,inter - \text{RAT}}$ is the total number of
inter-RAT E-UTRA reporting criteria configured by PCell except E-UTRA
PSCell and E-UTRA SCells carrier frequencies, according to Table
9.1.4.2-1,

$E_{cat,NE - DC,E - UTRA,intra - \text{RAT}}$ is the total number of
E-UTRA reporting criteria including E-UTRA PSCell and E-UTRA SCells
carrier frequencies as specified in TS 36.133 \[15\] for UE configured
with NE-DC.

\- For UE configured with SA operation mode: , where

is the total number of NR reporting criteria according to Table
9.1.4.2-1, and n is the number of configured NR serving frequencies,
including PCell, and SCells carrier frequencies,

is the total number of inter-RAT E-UTRA reporting criteria according to
Table 9.1.4.2-1.

\- For UE configured with NR-DC:
$E_{\text{cat},\text{NR} - \text{DC},\text{NR}} + E_{\text{cat},\text{NR} - \text{DC},E - \text{UTRA}}$,
where

$E_{cat,NR - DC,NR} = 10 + 9 \times n$ is the total number of NR
reporting criteria according to Table 9.1.4.2-1, and n is the number of
configured NR serving frequencies, including PCell, PSCell and SCells
carrier frequencies,

$E_{cat,NR - DC,E - \text{UTRA}}$ is the total number of inter-RAT
E-UTRA reporting criteria according to Table 9.1.4.2-1.

Table 9.1.4.2-1: Requirements for reporting criteria per measurement
category

+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
| Measurement category        | E~cat~ | Note                        |
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
| Intra-frequency             | 9      | Events for any one or a     |
| ^Note\ 1,2,3,4,5^           |        | combination of              |
|                             |        | intra-frequency SS-RSRP,    |
|                             |        | SS-RSRQ, SS-SINR, CSI-RSRP, |
|                             |        | CSI-RSRQ, and CSI-SINR for  |
|                             |        | NG-RAN intra-frequency      |
|                             |        | cells                       |
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
| Inter-frequency             | 10     | Events for any one or a     |
| ^Note\ 2,3,4,5^             |        | combination of              |
|                             |        | inter-frequency SS-RSRP,    |
|                             |        | SS-RSRQ, SS-SINR, CSI-RSRP, |
|                             |        | CSI-RSRQ, and CSI-SINR for  |
|                             |        | NG-RAN inter-frequency      |
|                             |        | cells                       |
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
| Inter-RAT (E-UTRA FDD,      | 10     | Only applicable for UE with |
| E-UTRA TDD) ^Note\ 2,4,5^   |        | this (inter-RAT)            |
|                             |        | capability. These reporting |
|                             |        | criteria apply for any      |
|                             |        | E-UTRA carrier frequencies  |
|                             |        | other than the carrier      |
|                             |        | frequency of the E-UTRA     |
|                             |        | PSCell or E-UTRA SCell.     |
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
| Inter-RAT (E-UTRA FDD,      | 1      | Inter-RAT RSTD measurement  |
| E-UTRA TDD) RSTD            |        | reporting for UE supporting |
| ^Note\ 2,4,5^               |        | OTDOA; 1 report capable of  |
|                             |        | minimum 16 inter-RAT cell   |
|                             |        | measurements.               |
|                             |        |                             |
|                             |        | Only applicable for UE with |
|                             |        | this (inter-RAT RSTD via    |
|                             |        | LPP \[22\]) capability.     |
|                             |        | These reporting criteria    |
|                             |        | apply for any E-UTRA        |
|                             |        | carrier frequencies other   |
|                             |        | than the carrier frequency  |
|                             |        | of the E-UTRA PSCell or     |
|                             |        | E-UTRA SCell.               |
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
| Inter-RAT (E-UTRA FDD,      | 1      | Inter-RAT RSRP and RSRQ     |
| E-UTRA TDD) RSRP and RSRQ   |        | measurements for E-CID      |
| measurements for E-CID      |        | reported to E-SMLC via LPP  |
| ^Note\ 2,4,5^               |        | \[22\]. One report capable  |
|                             |        | of at least in total 10     |
|                             |        | inter-RAT RSRP and RSRQ     |
|                             |        | measurements. Applicable to |
|                             |        | UE capable of reporting     |
|                             |        | inter-RAT RSRP and RSRQ to  |
|                             |        | E-SMLC via LPP. These       |
|                             |        | reporting criteria apply    |
|                             |        | for any E-UTRA carrier      |
|                             |        | frequencies other than the  |
|                             |        | carrier frequency of the    |
|                             |        | E-UTRA PSCell or E-UTRA     |
|                             |        | SCell.                      |
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
| Intra-frequency RSSI and    | 1      | One report capable of one   |
| channel occupancy           |        | RSSI and one channel        |
| measurements with CCA       |        | occupancy measurements over |
| ^Note\ 1,2,3^               |        | a channel \[TS 37.213\]     |
|                             |        | with CCA. Applicable for UE |
|                             |        | capable of performing and   |
|                             |        | reporting RSSI and channel  |
|                             |        | occupancy on carrier        |
|                             |        | frequencies under CCA.      |
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
| Inter-frequency RSSI and    | 1      | One report capable of one   |
| channel occupancy           |        | RSSI and one channel        |
| measurements with CCA       |        | occupancy measurements over |
| ^Note\ 2,3^                 |        | a channel \[TS 37.213\]     |
|                             |        | with CCA. Applicable for UE |
|                             |        | capable of performing and   |
|                             |        | reporting RSSI and channel  |
|                             |        | occupancy on carrier        |
|                             |        | frequencies under CCA.      |
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
| Intra-frequency SSB-based   | 1      | Intra-frequency SS-RSRP and |
| measurements for NR E-CID   |        | SS-RSRQ measurements for NR |
| ^Note\ 1,2,3,4,5^           |        | E-CID reported to LMF via   |
|                             |        | LPP \[34\]. One report      |
|                             |        | capable of at least in      |
|                             |        | total 9 intra-frequency     |
|                             |        | SS-RSRP and SS-RSRQ         |
|                             |        | measurements. Applicable to |
|                             |        | UE capable of reporting at  |
|                             |        | least one of SS-RSRP and    |
|                             |        | SS-RSRQ to LMF via LPP.     |
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
| Intra-frequency CSI-RS      | 1      | Intra-frequency CSI-RSRP    |
| based measurements for NR   |        | and CSI-RSRQ measurements   |
| E-CID ^Note\ 1,2,3,4,5^     |        | for NR E-CID reported to    |
|                             |        | LMF via LPP \[22\]. One     |
|                             |        | report capable of at least  |
|                             |        | in total 9 intra-frequency  |
|                             |        | CSI-RSRP and/or CSI-RSRQ    |
|                             |        | measurements. Applicable to |
|                             |        | UE capable of reporting any |
|                             |        | of CSI-RSRP and CSI-RSRQ to |
|                             |        | LMF via LPP, as indicated   |
|                             |        | in                          |
|                             |        | *                           |
|                             |        | nr-ECID-MeasSupported-r16*. |
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
| Inter-frequency SSB-based   | 1      | Inter-frequency SS-RSRP and |
| measurements for NR E-CID   |        | SS-RSRQ measurements for NR |
| ^Note\ 2,3,4,5^             |        | E-CID reported to LMF via   |
|                             |        | LPP \[34\]. One report      |
|                             |        | capable of at least in      |
|                             |        | total 10 inter-frequency    |
|                             |        | SS-RSRP and SS-RSRQ         |
|                             |        | measurements. Applicable to |
|                             |        | UE capable of reporting at  |
|                             |        | least one of SS-RSRP and    |
|                             |        | SS-RSRQ to LMF via LPP.     |
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
| Inter-frequency CSI-RS      | 1      | Inter-frequency CSI-RSRP    |
| based measurements for NR   |        | and CSI-RSRQ measurements   |
| E-CID ^Note\ 2,3,4,5^       |        | for NR E-CID reported to    |
|                             |        | LMF via LPP \[22\]. One     |
|                             |        | report capable of at least  |
|                             |        | in total 10 inter-frequency |
|                             |        | CSI-RSRP and CSI-RSRQ       |
|                             |        | measurements. Applicable to |
|                             |        | UE capable of reporting any |
|                             |        | of CSI-RSRP and CSI-RSRQ to |
|                             |        | LMF via LPP, as indicated   |
|                             |        | in                          |
|                             |        | *                           |
|                             |        | nr-ECID-MeasSupported-r16*. |
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
| DL RSTD ^Note\ 2,4,5^       | 1      | DL RSTD measurement         |
|                             |        | reporting; 1 report capable |
|                             |        | of multiple (within the UE  |
|                             |        | PRS measurement capability, |
|                             |        | *                           |
|                             |        | nr-DL-TDOA-MeasCapability*, |
|                             |        | indicated via LPP \[34\])   |
|                             |        | DL RSTD measurements and if |
|                             |        | supported also multiple     |
|                             |        | corresponding DL PRS-RSRP   |
|                             |        | measurements configured for |
|                             |        | DL-TDOA. Only applicable    |
|                             |        | for UE capable of reporting |
|                             |        | measurements for DL-TDOA to |
|                             |        | LMF via LPP \[34\].         |
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
| UE Rx-Tx ^Note\ 2,4,5^      | 1      | UE Rx-Tx measurement        |
|                             |        | reporting; 1 report capable |
|                             |        | of multiple (within the UE  |
|                             |        | PRS measurement capability, |
|                             |        | *nr-DL-PRS-MeasCapability*, |
|                             |        | indicated via LPP \[34\]    |
|                             |        | for multi-RTT) UE Rx-Tx     |
|                             |        | measurements and if         |
|                             |        | supported also multiple     |
|                             |        | corresponding DL PRS-RSRP   |
|                             |        | measurements configured for |
|                             |        | multi-RTT. Only applicable  |
|                             |        | for UE capable of reporting |
|                             |        | measurements for multi-RTT  |
|                             |        | to LMF via LPP \[34\].      |
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
| DL PRS-RSRP ^Note\ 2,4,5^   | 1      | DL PRS-RSRP measurement     |
|                             |        | reporting; 1 report capable |
|                             |        | of multiple (within the UE  |
|                             |        | PRS measurement capability, |
|                             |        | *nr-DL-PRS-MeasCapability*, |
|                             |        | indicated via LPP \[34\]    |
|                             |        | for AoD) DL PRS-RSRP        |
|                             |        | measurements configured for |
|                             |        | DL-AoD. Only applicable for |
|                             |        | UE capable of reporting     |
|                             |        | measurements for DL-AoD to  |
|                             |        | LMF via LPP \[34\].         |
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
| SRS-RSRP ^Note\ 2,3,4,5^    | 1      | SRS-RSRP measurement        |
|                             |        | reporting for CLI; 1 report |
|                             |        | capable of up to 32 SRS     |
|                             |        | resources measurements.     |
|                             |        | Only applicable for UE      |
|                             |        | supporting                  |
|                             |        | *cli-SRS-RSRP-Meas-r16*.    |
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
| CLI-RSSI ^Note\ 2,3,4,5^    | 1      | CLI-RSSI measurement        |
|                             |        | reporting for CLI; 1 report |
|                             |        | capable of up to 64         |
|                             |        | CLi-RSSI resources          |
|                             |        | measurements. Only          |
|                             |        | applicable for UE           |
|                             |        | supporting                  |
|                             |        | *cli-RSSI-Meas-r16*.        |
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
| NOTE 1: When the UE is      |        |                             |
| configured with PSCell and  |        |                             |
| SCell carrier frequencies,  |        |                             |
| E~cat~ for Intra-frequency  |        |                             |
| is applied per              |        |                             |
| corresponding NR serving    |        |                             |
| frequency.                  |        |                             |
|                             |        |                             |
| NOTE 2: Applicable for UE   |        |                             |
| configured with SA NR       |        |                             |
| operation mode.             |        |                             |
|                             |        |                             |
| NOTE 3: Applicable for UE   |        |                             |
| configured with EN-DC       |        |                             |
| operation mode.             |        |                             |
|                             |        |                             |
| NOTE 4: Applicable for UE   |        |                             |
| configured with NE-DC       |        |                             |
| operation mode.             |        |                             |
|                             |        |                             |
| NOTE 5: Applicable for UE   |        |                             |
| configured with NR-DC       |        |                             |
| operation mode.             |        |                             |
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+

### 9.1.5 Carrier-specific scaling factor

This clause specifies the derivation of carrier-specific scaling factor
(CSSF) values, which scales the measurement delay requirements given in
clause 9.2, 9.2A, 9.3, 9.3A 9.4, and NR PRS-based positioning
measurements in clause 9.9 and CSI-RS based L3 measurement in clause
9.10 when UE is configured to monitor multiple measurement objects. The
CSSF values are categorized into CSSF~outside\_gap,i~ and
CSSF~within\_gap,i~, for the measurements conducted outside measurement
gaps and within measurement gaps, respectively.

#### 9.1.5.1 Monitoring of multiple layers outside gaps

The carrier-specific scaling factor CSSF~outside\_gap,i~ for measurement
object *i derived in this chapter is applied to following measurement
types:*

\- SSB-based intra-frequency measurement with no measurement gap in
clause 9.2.5 and 9.2A.5, when none of the SMTC occasions of this
intra-frequency measurement object are overlapped by the measurement
gap.

\- SSB-based intra-frequency measurement with no measurement gap in
clause 9.2.5 and 9.2A.5, when part of the SMTC occasions of this
intra-frequency measurement object are overlapped by the measurement
gap.

> \- For a UE in E-UTRA-NR dual connectivity operation, NR SSB-based
> inter-RAT measurement object configured by the E-UTRAN PCell on an NR
> serving carrier

\- the SSB is completely contained in the active BWP of the UE, and

\- none or part of the SMTC occasions of this inter-RAT measurement
object are overlapped by the measurement gap;

> \- CSI-RS based intra-frequency measurement in clause 9.10.2, when
> none of CSI-RS resources for L3 measurement of this intra-frequency
> measurement object are overlapped by the measurement gap.
>
> \- CSI-RS based intra-frequency measurement in clause 9.10.2, when all
> CSI-RS resources for L3 measurement of this intra-frequency
> measurement object are partially overlapped by the measurement gap.
>
> \- SSB-based inter-frequency measurement with no measurement gap in
> clause 9.3.9, when none of the SMTC occasions of this inter-frequency
> measurement object are overlapped by the measurement gap, if UE
> supports *interFrequencyMeas-NoGap-r16* and the flag
> *interFrequencyConfig-NoGap-r16* is configured by the Network.
>
> \- SSB-based inter-frequency measurement with no measurement gap in
> clause 9.3.9, when part of the SMTC occasions of this inter-frequency
> measurement object are overlapped by the measurement gap, if UE
> supports *interFrequencyMeas-NoGap-r16* and the flag
> *interFrequencyConfig-NoGap-r16* is configured by the Network.

\- Intra-frequency RSSI and channel occupancy measurement with no
measurement gap on a carrier subject to CCA when SMTC and RMTC are
overlapping and RMTCs are not fully overlapped with measurement gap.

For a UE in E-UTRA-NR dual connectivity operation, if a measurement
object configured by PSCell and an NR inter-RAT measurment object
configured by E-UTRAN PCell are on the same serving carrier, they shall
be counted as one intra-frequency measurement object, provided that they
meet the measurement object merging conditions \[in clause 9.1.3.2\].

The number of frequency layers for SSB measurements shall include the
total number of MOs with

*- ssb-ConfigMobility* configured, or

*- ssb-ConfigMobility* not configured *but csi-rs-ResourceConfigMobility
configured with associatedSSB*.

If *ssbfrequency, smtc1, smtc2* and *ssbSubcarrierSpacing* are same in
multiple MOs, the multiple MOs are counted as one SSB frequency layer.

If the higher layer signaling in TS 38.331 \[2\] of *smtc2* is present
and *smtc1* is fully overlapping with measurement gaps and *smtc2* is
partially overlapping with measurement gaps, CSSF~outside\_gap,i~ and
requirements derived from CSSF~outside\_gap,i~ are not specified.

The UE cell identification and measurement periods derived based on
CSSF~outside\_gap,i~ in clauses 9.2.5.1, 9.2.5.2 and 9.10.2 may be
extended for measurement objects of which the cell identification and
measurement periods are overlapped with T~measure\_SFTD1~ specified in
clause 9.3.8 when no measurement gaps are provided.

The requirements in this clause apply provided that

\- The SMTC on all CCs and inter-frequency layers without measurement
gap in FR2 have the same offset, and one of following conditions is met

\- If *smtc2* is configured on any FR2 CC,

\- All CCs have the same configuration for *smtc1*, and

\- All CCs configured with *smtc2* have the same configuration for
*smtc2*

\- If *smtc2* is not configured on any FR2 CC,

\- The total number of different SMTC periodicities on all serving CCs
and inter-frequency layers without measurement gap does not exceed 4

\- The starting point of the first 5ms window for CSI-RS measurement as
defined in clause 9.10.1 on all CCs in FR2 is same and one of following
conditions is met

\- If any CSI-RS resource is configured in the second 5ms window for
CSI-RS measurement as defined in clause 9.10.1 on any FR2 CC,

\- All CCs with CSI-RS resources only in the first 5ms window have the
same CSI-RS resource periodcity, and

\- All CCs with CSI-RS resources both in the first and the second 5ms
window have the same CSI-RS resource periodcity

\- If no CSI-RS resource is configured in the second 5ms window for
CSI-RS measurement as defined in clause 9.10.1 on any FR2 CC,

\- The total number of different CSI-RS resources periodicities on all
serving CCs does not exceed 3

Note: Longer delays for cell identification and measurement periods
derived based on CSSF~outside\_gap,i~ in clauses 9.2.5.1, 9.2.5.2, can
be expected, if the UE is configured with more than 4 different SMTC
periodicities on FR2 serving carriers. The longer delay applies for the
FR2 intra-frequency measurement objects with the longest SMTC
periodicity/periodicities.

##### 9.1.5.1.1 EN-DC mode: carrier-specific scaling factor for SSB-based, CSI-RS based L3 measurements and RSSI and channel occupancy measurements performed outside gaps

For UE configured with the E-UTRA-NR dual connectivity operation, the
carrier-specific scaling factor CSSF~outside\_gap,i~ for intra-frequency
SSB-based measurements, inter-frequency SSB-based measurements performed
outside measurements gaps, intra-frequency CSI-RS L3 measurement and
RSSI/channel occupancy measurement with no measurement gap on a carrier
subject to CCA when SMTC and RMTC are overlapping will be as specified
in Table 9.1.5.1.1-1.

Table 9.1.5.1.1-1: CSSF~outside\_gap,i~ scaling factor for EN-DC mode

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| S       | *       | *       | *       | *       | *       | *       |
| cenario | CSSF*~o | CSSF*~o | CSSF*~o | CSSF*~o | CSSF*~o | CSSF*~o |
|         | utside\ | utside\ | utside\ | utside\ | utside\ | utside\ |
|         | _gap,i~ | _gap,i~ | _gap,i~ | _gap,i~ | _gap,i~ | _gap,i~ |
|         | for FR1 | for FR1 | for FR2 | for FR2 | for FR2 | for     |
|         | PSCC    | SCC     | PSCC    | SCC     | SCC     | i       |
|         |         |         |         | where   | where   | nter-fr |
|         |         |         |         | ne      | ne      | equency |
|         |         |         |         | ighbour | ighbour | MO with |
|         |         |         |         | cell    | cell    | no      |
|         |         |         |         | meas    | meas    | meas    |
|         |         |         |         | urement | urement | urement |
|         |         |         |         | is      | is not  | gp      |
|         |         |         |         | r       | r       |         |
|         |         |         |         | equired | equired |         |
|         |         |         |         | ^N      |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | ote\ 2^ |         |         |
+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+
| **EN-DC | 1+      | N~SC    | N/A     | N/A     | N/A     | N~SC    |
| with    | N~PSCC\ | C\_SSB~ |         |         |         | C\_SSB~ |
| FR1     | _CSIRS~ | +Y+2x   |         |         |         | +Y+2x   |
| only    | +       | N~SCC\_ |         |         |         | N~SCC\  |
| CA**    | N~PSCC\ | CSIRS~+ |         |         |         | _CSIRS~ |
|         | _CCA\_R | N~SCC\  |         |         |         |         |
|         | SSI/CO~ | _CCA\_R |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | SSI/CO~ |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| **EN-DC | N/A     | N/A     | 1+      | N/A     | N~SC    | N~SC    |
| with**  |         |         | N~PSCC\ |         | C\_SSB~ | C\_SSB~ |
|         |         |         | _CSIRS~ |         | +Y+2x   | +Y+2x   |
| **FR2   |         |         |         |         | N~SCC\  | N~SCC\  |
| only    |         |         |         |         | _CSIRS~ | _CSIRS~ |
| intra   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| band    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CA**    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| **EN-DC | N/A     | N/A     | 1+      | 2x(1+   | 2×(     | 2×(     |
| with**  |         |         | N~PSCC\ | N~S     | N~SC    | N~SC    |
|         |         |         | _CSIRS~ | CC\_CSI | C\_SSB~ | C\_SSB~ |
| **FR2   |         |         |         | RS\_FR2 | +Y+2x   | +Y+2x   |
| only    |         |         |         | \_NCM~) | N~SCC\  | N~SCC\  |
| inter   |         |         |         | ^Not    | _CSIRS~ | _CSIRS~ |
| band    |         |         |         | e\ 3,5^ | -       | -       |
| CA**    |         |         |         |         | 1-N~SCC | 1-N~SCC |
|         |         |         |         |         | \_CSIRS | \_CSIRS |
|         |         |         |         |         | \_\ FR2 | \_\ FR2 |
|         |         |         |         |         | \_NCM~) | \_NCM~) |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| **EN-DC | 1+      | 2×(     | N/A     | 2       | 2×(     | 2×(     |
| with**  | N~PSCC\ | N~SC    |         | x(1+N~S | N~SC    | N~SC    |
|         | _CSIRS~ | C\_SSB~ |         | CC\_CSI | C\_SSB~ | C\_SSB~ |
| **FR1   |         | +Y+2    |         | RS\_FR2 | +Y+2x   | +Y+2x   |
| +FR2 CA |         | xN~SCC\ |         | \_NCM~) | N~SCC\  | N~SCC\  |
| (FR1    |         | _CSIRS~ |         | ^N      | _CSIRS~ | _CSIRS~ |
| PSCell) |         | -       |         | ote\ 3^ | -       | -       |
| ^Not    |         | 1-N~SCC |         |         | 1-N~SCC | 1-N~SCC |
| e\ 1^** |         | \_CSIRS |         |         | \_CSIRS | \_CSIRS |
|         |         | \_\ FR2 |         |         | \_\ FR2 | \_\ FR2 |
|         |         | \_NCM~) |         |         | \_NCM~) | \_NCM~) |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| **EN-DC | N/A     | N~SC    | 1+      | N/A     | N~      | N~      |
| with**  |         | C\_SSB~ | N~PSCC\ |         | SCC\_SS | SCC\_SS |
|         |         | +Y+2x   | _CSIRS~ |         | B~+Y+2x | B~+Y+2x |
| **FR1   |         | N~SCC\  |         |         | N~SCC\  | N~SCC\  |
| +FR2 CA |         | _CSIRS~ |         |         | _CSIRS~ | _CSIRS~ |
| (FR2    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| PSCell) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ^Not    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| e\ 1^** |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Note 1: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Only    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| one NR  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| FR1     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| op      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| erating |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| band    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and one |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NR FR2  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| op      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| erating |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| band    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| are     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| i       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ncluded |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| FR1+FR2 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| int     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| er-band |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| EN-DC.  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 2: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Se      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| lection |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of FR2  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SCC     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| where   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ne      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ighbour |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cell    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| r       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| equired |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| follows |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| clause  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 9       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| .2.3.2. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 3: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSSF~o  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| utside\ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| _gap,i~ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| =1 if   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| only    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| one     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SCell   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and no  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| i       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| nter-fr |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| equency |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| MO      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| without |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| gap and |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| only    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SSB     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| based   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| L3      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| on SCC; |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSSF~o  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| utside\ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| _gap,i~ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| =2 if   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| only    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| one     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SCell   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and no  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| i       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| nter-fr |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| equency |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| MO      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| without |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| gap and |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| either  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| both    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SSB and |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSI-RS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| based   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| L3      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| or only |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSI-RS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| based   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| L3      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| on SCC. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 4: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Y is    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| number  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| i       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| nter-fr |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| equency |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| MOs     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| without |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| MG that |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| are     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| being   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| m       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| easured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| outside |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of MG;  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| oth     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| erwise, |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| it is   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 0.      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 5: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Only    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| two NR  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| FR2     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| op      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| erating |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| band    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| are     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| i       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ncluded |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| EN-DC   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| with    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| FR2     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| only    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| int     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| er-band |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CA      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 6: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| N~      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| PSCC\_C |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SIRS~=1 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| if PSCC |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is with |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| either  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| both    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SSB and |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSI-RS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| based   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| L3      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| or only |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSI-RS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| based   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| L3      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| conf    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| igured; |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| oth     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| erwise, |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| N~PSCC\ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| _CSIRS~ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| =0.     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 7: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| N~SCC\  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| _CSIRS~ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| =Number |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| S       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Cell(s) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| with    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| either  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| both    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SSB and |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSI-RS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| based   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| L3      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| or only |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSI-RS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| based   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| L3      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 8: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| N~SC    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| C\_CSIR |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| S\_FR2\ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| _NCM~=1 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| if FR2  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SCC,    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| where   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ne      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ighbour |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cell    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| re      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| quired, |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is with |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| either  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| both    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SSB and |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSI-RS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| or only |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSI-RS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| conf    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| igured; |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| oth     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| erwise, |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| N~SCC   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| \_CSIRS |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| \_FR2\_ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NCM~=0. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 9: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| N~SC    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| C\_SSB~ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| =Number |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| S       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Cell(s) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| with    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| only    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SSB     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| based   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| L3      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 10:     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| N       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ~PSCC\_ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CCA\_RS |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SI/CO~= |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 1 if    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| PSCC is |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| with    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| RSSI/CO |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| measu   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rements |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| without |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| MG when |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| RMTC    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SMTC    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| are     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| overl   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| apping; |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| N~SCC\  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| _CCA\_R |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SSI/CO~ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| =       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Number  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of MOs  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| S       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Cell(s) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| with    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| RSSI/CO |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| measu   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rements |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| without |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| MG when |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| RMTC    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SMTC    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| are     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| overl   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| apping. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

##### 9.1.5.1.2 SA mode: carrier-specific scaling factor for SSB-based, CSI-RS based L3 measurements and RSSI and channel occupancy measurements performed outside gaps

For UE in SA operation mode, the carrier-specific scaling factor
CSSF~outside\_gap,i~ for intra-frequency SSB-based measurements,
inter-frequency SSB-based measurements performed outside measurements
gaps, intra-frequency CSI-RS L3 measurement and RSSI/channel occupancy
measurement with no measurement gap on a carrier subject to CCA when
SMTC and RMTC are overlapping will be as specified in Table 9.1.5.1.2-1,
which shall also be applied for a UE configured with NE-DC operation.

Table 9.1.5.1.2-1: CSSF~outside\_gap,i~ scaling factor for SA mode

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| S       | *       | *       | *       | *       | *CSSF*  | *       |
| cenario | CSSF*~o | CSSF*~o | CSSF*~o | CSSF*~o | ~o      | CSSF*~o |
|         | utside\ | utside\ | utside\ | utside\ | utside\ | utside\ |
|         | _gap,i~ | _gap,i~ | _gap,i~ | _gap,i~ | _gap,i~ | _gap,i~ |
|         | for FR1 | for FR1 | for FR2 | for FR2 | for FR2 | for     |
|         | PCC     | SCC     | PCC     | SCC     | SCC     | i       |
|         |         |         |         | where   | where   | nter-fr |
|         |         |         |         | ne      | ne      | equency |
|         |         |         |         | ighbour | ighbour | MO with |
|         |         |         |         | cell    | cell    | no      |
|         |         |         |         | meas    | meas    | meas    |
|         |         |         |         | urement | urement | urement |
|         |         |         |         | is      | is not  | gap     |
|         |         |         |         | r       | r       |         |
|         |         |         |         | equired | equired |         |
+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+
| **FR1   | 1       | N~SC    | N/A     | N/A     | N/A     | N~SC    |
| only    | +N~PCC\ | C\_SSB~ |         |         |         | C\_SSB~ |
| CA**    | _CSIRS~ | +Y+2x   |         |         |         | +Y+2x   |
|         | +       | N~SCC\_ |         |         |         | N~SCC\  |
|         | N~PCC\  | CSIRS~+ |         |         |         | _CSIRS~ |
|         | _CCA\_R | N~SCC\  |         |         |         |         |
|         | SSI/CO~ | _CCA\_R |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | SSI/CO~ |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| **FR2   | N/A     | N/A     | 1       | N/A     | N~SC    | N~SC    |
| only    |         |         | +N~PCC\ |         | C\_SSB~ | C\_SSB~ |
| intra   |         |         | _CSIRS~ |         | +Y+2x   | +Y+2x   |
| band    |         |         |         |         | N~SCC\  | N~SCC\  |
| CA**    |         |         |         |         | _CSIRS~ | _CSIRS~ |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| **FR2   | N/A     | N/A     | 1       | 2\*(1+  | 2×(     | 2×(     |
| only    |         |         | +N~PCC\ | N~S     | N~SC    | N~SC    |
| inter   |         |         | _CSIRS~ | CC\_CSI | C\_SSB~ | C\_SSB~ |
| band    |         |         |         | RS\_FR2 | +Y+2x   | +Y+2x   |
| CA**    |         |         |         | \_NCM~) | N~SCC\  | N~SCC\  |
|         |         |         |         | ^Not    | _CSIRS~ | _CSIRS~ |
|         |         |         |         | e\ 3,5^ | -       | -       |
|         |         |         |         |         | 1-N~SCC | 1-N~SCC |
|         |         |         |         |         | \_CSIRS | \_CSIRS |
|         |         |         |         |         | \_\ FR2 | \_\ FR2 |
|         |         |         |         |         | \_NCM~) | \_NCM~) |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| **FR1   | 1       | 2×(     | N/A     | 2x(1+   | 2×(     | 2×(     |
| +FR2 CA | +N~PCC\ | N~SC    |         | N~S     | N~SC    | N~SC    |
| (FR1    | _CSIRS~ | C\_SSB~ |         | CC\_CSI | C\_SSB~ | C\_SSB~ |
| PCell)  |         | +Y+2\*  |         | RS\_FR2 | +Y+2x   | +Y+2x   |
| ^Not    |         | N~SCC\  |         | \_NCM~) | N~SCC\  | N~SCC\  |
| e\ 1^** |         | _CSIRS~ |         | ^Not    | _CSIRS~ | _CSIRS~ |
|         |         | -       |         | e\ 3,5^ | -       | -       |
|         |         | 1-N~SCC |         |         | 1-N~SCC | 1-N~SCC |
|         |         | \_CSIRS |         |         | \_CSIRS | \_CSIRS |
|         |         | \ FR2\_ |         |         | \_\ FR2 | \_\ FR2 |
|         |         | \_NCM~) |         |         | \_NCM~) | \_NCM~) |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| **FR1   | N/A     | N~SC    | 1       | N/A     | N~SC    | N~SC    |
| +FR2 CA |         | C\_SSB~ | +N~PCC\ |         | C\_SSB~ | C\_SSB~ |
| (FR2    |         | +Y+2x   | _CSIRS~ |         | +Y+2x   | +Y+2x   |
| PCell)  |         | N~SCC\  |         |         | N~SCC\  | N~SCC\  |
| ^Not    |         | _CSIRS~ |         |         | _CSIRS~ | _CSIRS~ |
| e\ 1^** |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Note 1: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Only    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| one FR1 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| op      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| erating |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| band    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and one |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| FR2     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| op      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| erating |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| band    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| are     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| i       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ncluded |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| FR1+FR2 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| int     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| er-band |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CA.     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 2: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Se      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| lection |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of FR2  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SCC     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| where   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ne      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ighbour |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cell    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| r       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| equired |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| follows |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| clause  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 9       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| .2.3.2. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 3: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSSF~o  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| utside\ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| _gap,i~ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| =1 if   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| only    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| one     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SCell   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and no  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| i       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| nter-fr |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| equency |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| MO      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| without |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| gap and |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| only    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SSB     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| based   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| L3      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| on SCC; |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSSF~o  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| utside\ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| _gap,i~ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| =2 if   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| only    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| one     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SCell   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and no  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| i       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| nter-fr |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| equency |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| MO      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| without |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| gap and |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| either  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| both    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SSB and |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSI-RS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| based   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| L3      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| or only |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSI-RS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| based   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| L3      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| on SCC. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 4: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Y is    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| number  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| i       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| nter-fr |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| equency |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| MOs     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| without |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| MG that |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| are     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| being   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| m       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| easured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| outside |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of MG;  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| oth     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| erwise, |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| it is   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 0.      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 5: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Only    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| two NR  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| FR2     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| op      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| erating |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bands   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| are     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| i       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ncluded |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for FR2 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| int     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| er-band |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CA.     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 6: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| N       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ~PCC\_C |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SIRS~=1 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| if PCC  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is with |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| either  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| both    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SSB and |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSI-RS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| based   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| L3      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| or only |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSI-RS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| based   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| L3      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| conf    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| igured; |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| oth     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| erwise, |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| N~PCC\  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| _CSIRS~ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| =0.     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 7: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| N~SCC\  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| _CSIRS~ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| =Number |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| S       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Cell(s) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| with    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| either  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| both    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SSB and |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSI-RS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| based   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| L3      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| or only |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSI-RS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| based   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| L3      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 8: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| N~SC    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| C\_CSIR |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| S\_FR2\ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| _NCM~=1 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| if FR2  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SCC,    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| where   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ne      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ighbour |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cell    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| re      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| quired, |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is with |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| either  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| both    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SSB and |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSI-RS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| or only |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSI-RS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| conf    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| igured; |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| oth     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| erwise, |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| N~SCC   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| \_CSIRS |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| \_FR2\_ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NCM~=0. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 9: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| N~SC    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| C\_SSB~ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| =Number |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| S       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Cell(s) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| with    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| only    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SSB     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| based   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| L3      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 10:     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| N~PCC\_ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CCA\_RS |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SI/CO~= |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 1 if    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| PSCC is |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| with    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| RSSI/CO |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| measu   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rements |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| without |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| MG when |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| RMTC    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SMTC    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| are     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| overl   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| apping; |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| N~SCC\  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| _CCA\_R |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SSI/CO~ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| =       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Number  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of MOs  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| S       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Cell(s) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| with    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| RSSI/CO |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| measu   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rements |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| without |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| MG when |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| RMTC    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SMTC    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| are     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| overla  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| pping.. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

##### 9.1.5.1.3 NR-DC mode: carrier-specific scaling factor for SSB-based and CSI-RS based L3 measurements performed outside gaps

For UE configured with NR-DC operation, the carrier-specific scaling
factor CSSF~outside\_gap,i~ for intra-frequency SSB-based measurement,
inter-frequency SSB-based measurements performed outside measurements
gaps and intra-frequency CSI-RS based L3 measurement will be as
specified in Table 9.1.5.1.3-1.

Table 9.1.5.1.3-1: CSSF~outside\_gap,i~ scaling factor for NR-DC mode

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Scenario | *CSSF*   | *CSSF*   | *CSSF*   | *CSSF*   | *CSSF*   |
|          | ~outside | ~outside | ~outside | ~outside | ~outside |
|          | \_gap,i~ | \_gap,i~ | \_gap,i~ | \_gap,i~ | \_gap,i~ |
|          | for FR1  | for FR1  | for FR2  | for FR2  | for      |
|          | PCC      | SCC      | PSCC     | SCC      | inter-f  |
|          |          |          |          | where    | requency |
|          |          |          |          | n        | MO with  |
|          |          |          |          | eighbour | no       |
|          |          |          |          | cell     | mea      |
|          |          |          |          | mea      | surement |
|          |          |          |          | surement | gap      |
|          |          |          |          | is not   |          |
|          |          |          |          | required |          |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+
| **FR1 +  | 1+N~PCC  | 2×(      | 2x(1+    | 2x(N~S   | 2x(N~S   |
| FR2      | \_CSIRS~ | N~S      | N~PSCC\  | CC\_SSB~ | CC\_SSB~ |
| NR-DC    |          | CC\_SSB~ | _CSIRS~) | +Y+2x    | +Y+2x    |
| (FR1     |          | +Y+      | ^        | N~SCC    | N~SCC    |
| PCell    |          | 2xN~SCC\ | Note\ 2^ | \_CSIRS~ | \_CSIRS~ |
| and FR2  |          | _CSIRS~) |          | )        | )        |
| PScell)  |          |          |          |          |          |
| ^No      |          |          |          |          |          |
| te\ 1^** |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Note 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| NR-DC in |          |          |          |          |          |
| Rel-15   |          |          |          |          |          |
| only     |          |          |          |          |          |
| includes |          |          |          |          |          |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |
| cenarios |          |          |          |          |          |
| where    |          |          |          |          |          |
| all      |          |          |          |          |          |
| serving  |          |          |          |          |          |
| cells in |          |          |          |          |          |
| MCG in   |          |          |          |          |          |
| FR1 and  |          |          |          |          |          |
| all      |          |          |          |          |          |
| serving  |          |          |          |          |          |
| cells in |          |          |          |          |          |
| SCG in   |          |          |          |          |          |
| FR2.     |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| Note 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| CSSF     |          |          |          |          |          |
| ~outside |          |          |          |          |          |
| \_gap,i~ |          |          |          |          |          |
| =1 if no |          |          |          |          |          |
| SCell is |          |          |          |          |          |
| co       |          |          |          |          |          |
| nfigured |          |          |          |          |          |
| and no   |          |          |          |          |          |
| inter-f  |          |          |          |          |          |
| requency |          |          |          |          |          |
| MO       |          |          |          |          |          |
| without  |          |          |          |          |          |
| gap and  |          |          |          |          |          |
| only SSB |          |          |          |          |          |
| based L3 |          |          |          |          |          |
| mea      |          |          |          |          |          |
| surement |          |          |          |          |          |
| is       |          |          |          |          |          |
| co       |          |          |          |          |          |
| nfigured |          |          |          |          |          |
| on PSCC; |          |          |          |          |          |
| CSSF     |          |          |          |          |          |
| ~outside |          |          |          |          |          |
| \_gap,i~ |          |          |          |          |          |
| =2 if no |          |          |          |          |          |
| SCell is |          |          |          |          |          |
| co       |          |          |          |          |          |
| nfigured |          |          |          |          |          |
| and no   |          |          |          |          |          |
| inter-f  |          |          |          |          |          |
| requency |          |          |          |          |          |
| MO       |          |          |          |          |          |
| without  |          |          |          |          |          |
| gap and  |          |          |          |          |          |
| either   |          |          |          |          |          |
| both SSB |          |          |          |          |          |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |
| CSI-RS   |          |          |          |          |          |
| based L3 |          |          |          |          |          |
| co       |          |          |          |          |          |
| nfigured |          |          |          |          |          |
| or only  |          |          |          |          |          |
| CSI-RS   |          |          |          |          |          |
| based L3 |          |          |          |          |          |
| mea      |          |          |          |          |          |
| surement |          |          |          |          |          |
| is       |          |          |          |          |          |
| co       |          |          |          |          |          |
| nfigured |          |          |          |          |          |
| on PSCC. |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| Note 3:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Y is the |          |          |          |          |          |
| number   |          |          |          |          |          |
| of       |          |          |          |          |          |
| co       |          |          |          |          |          |
| nfigured |          |          |          |          |          |
| inter-f  |          |          |          |          |          |
| requency |          |          |          |          |          |
| SSB      |          |          |          |          |          |
| based    |          |          |          |          |          |
| f        |          |          |          |          |          |
| requency |          |          |          |          |          |
| layers   |          |          |          |          |          |
| without  |          |          |          |          |          |
| MG that  |          |          |          |          |          |
| are      |          |          |          |          |          |
| being    |          |          |          |          |          |
| measured |          |          |          |          |          |
| outside  |          |          |          |          |          |
| of MG;   |          |          |          |          |          |
| ot       |          |          |          |          |          |
| herwise, |          |          |          |          |          |
| it is 0. |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| Note 4:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| N~PCC\_  |          |          |          |          |          |
| CSIRS~=1 |          |          |          |          |          |
| if PCC   |          |          |          |          |          |
| is with  |          |          |          |          |          |
| either   |          |          |          |          |          |
| both SSB |          |          |          |          |          |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |
| CSI-RS   |          |          |          |          |          |
| based L3 |          |          |          |          |          |
| co       |          |          |          |          |          |
| nfigured |          |          |          |          |          |
| or only  |          |          |          |          |          |
| CSI-RS   |          |          |          |          |          |
| based L3 |          |          |          |          |          |
| mea      |          |          |          |          |          |
| surement |          |          |          |          |          |
| con      |          |          |          |          |          |
| figured; |          |          |          |          |          |
| ot       |          |          |          |          |          |
| herwise, |          |          |          |          |          |
| N~PCC    |          |          |          |          |          |
| \_CSIRS~ |          |          |          |          |          |
| =0.      |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| Note 5:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| N~PSCC\_ |          |          |          |          |          |
| CSIRS~=1 |          |          |          |          |          |
| if PSCC  |          |          |          |          |          |
| is with  |          |          |          |          |          |
| either   |          |          |          |          |          |
| both SSB |          |          |          |          |          |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |
| CSI-RS   |          |          |          |          |          |
| based L3 |          |          |          |          |          |
| co       |          |          |          |          |          |
| nfigured |          |          |          |          |          |
| or only  |          |          |          |          |          |
| CSI-RS   |          |          |          |          |          |
| based L3 |          |          |          |          |          |
| mea      |          |          |          |          |          |
| surement |          |          |          |          |          |
| con      |          |          |          |          |          |
| figured; |          |          |          |          |          |
| ot       |          |          |          |          |          |
| herwise, |          |          |          |          |          |
| N~PSCC   |          |          |          |          |          |
| \_CSIRS~ |          |          |          |          |          |
| =0.      |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| Note 6:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| N~SC     |          |          |          |          |          |
| C\_CSIRS |          |          |          |          |          |
| ~=Number |          |          |          |          |          |
| of       |          |          |          |          |          |
| co       |          |          |          |          |          |
| nfigured |          |          |          |          |          |
| SCell(s) |          |          |          |          |          |
| with     |          |          |          |          |          |
| either   |          |          |          |          |          |
| both SSB |          |          |          |          |          |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |
| CSI-RS   |          |          |          |          |          |
| based L3 |          |          |          |          |          |
| mea      |          |          |          |          |          |
| surement |          |          |          |          |          |
| co       |          |          |          |          |          |
| nfigured |          |          |          |          |          |
| or only  |          |          |          |          |          |
| CSI-RS   |          |          |          |          |          |
| based L3 |          |          |          |          |          |
| mea      |          |          |          |          |          |
| surement |          |          |          |          |          |
| co       |          |          |          |          |          |
| nfigured |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| Note 7:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Void     |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| Note 8:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| N~       |          |          |          |          |          |
| SCC\_SSB |          |          |          |          |          |
| ~=Number |          |          |          |          |          |
| of       |          |          |          |          |          |
| co       |          |          |          |          |          |
| nfigured |          |          |          |          |          |
| SCell(s) |          |          |          |          |          |
| with     |          |          |          |          |          |
| only SSB |          |          |          |          |          |
| based L3 |          |          |          |          |          |
| mea      |          |          |          |          |          |
| surement |          |          |          |          |          |
| co       |          |          |          |          |          |
| nfigured |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

##### 9.1.5.1.4 NE-DC mode: carrier-specific scaling factor for SSB-based and CSI-RS based measurements performed outside gaps

For UE configured with NE-DC operation, the carrier-specific scaling
factor CSSF~outside\_gap,i~ for intra-frequency SSB-based measurement
and inter-frequency SSB-based measurements performed outside
measurements gaps and intra-frequency CSI-RS based L3 measurement will
be as specified in Table 9.1.5.1.4-1.

Table 9.1.5.1.4-1: CSSF~outside\_gap,i~ scaling factor for NE-DC mode

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| S       | *       | *       | *       | *       | *       | *       |
| cenario | CSSF*~o | CSSF*~o | CSSF*~o | CSSF*~o | CSSF*~o | CSSF*~o |
|         | utside\ | utside\ | utside\ | utside\ | utside\ | utside\ |
|         | _gap,i~ | _gap,i~ | _gap,i~ | _gap,i~ | _gap,i~ | _gap,i~ |
|         | for FR1 | for FR1 | for FR2 | for FR2 | for FR2 | for     |
|         | PCC     | SCC     | PCC     | SCC     | SCC     | i       |
|         |         |         |         | where   | where   | nter-fr |
|         |         |         |         | ne      | ne      | equency |
|         |         |         |         | ighbour | ighbour | MO with |
|         |         |         |         | cell    | cell    | no      |
|         |         |         |         | meas    | meas    | meas    |
|         |         |         |         | urement | urement | urement |
|         |         |         |         | is      | is not  | gap     |
|         |         |         |         | r       | r       |         |
|         |         |         |         | equired | equired |         |
+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+
| **NE-DC | 1       | N~SC    | N/A     | N/A     | N/A     | N~SC    |
| with    | +N~PCC\ | C\_SSB~ |         |         |         | C\_SSB~ |
| FR1     | _CSIRS~ | +Y+2x   |         |         |         | +Y+2x   |
| only    |         | N~SCC\  |         |         |         | N~SCC\  |
| CA**    |         | _CSIRS~ |         |         |         | _CSIRS~ |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| **NE-DC | N/A     | N/A     | 1       | N/A     | N~SC    | N~SC    |
| with    |         |         | +N~PCC\ |         | C\_SSB~ | C\_SSB~ |
| FR2     |         |         | _CSIRS~ |         | +Y+2x   | +Y+2x   |
| only    |         |         |         |         | N~SCC\  | N~SCC\  |
| intra   |         |         |         |         | _CSIRS~ | _CSIRS~ |
| band    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CA**    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| **NE-DC | N/A     | N/A     | 1       | 2\*(1+  | 2×(     | 2×(     |
| with**  |         |         | +N~PCC\ | N~S     | N~SC    | N~SC    |
|         |         |         | _CSIRS~ | CC\_CSI | C\_SSB~ | C\_SSB~ |
| **FR2   |         |         |         | RS\_FR2 | +Y+2x   | +Y+2x   |
| only    |         |         |         | \_NCM~) | N~SCC\  | N~SCC\  |
| inter   |         |         |         | ^Not    | _CSIRS~ | _CSIRS~ |
| band    |         |         |         | e\ 3,5^ | -       | -       |
| CA**    |         |         |         |         | 1-N~SCC | 1-N~SCC |
|         |         |         |         |         | \_CSIRS | \_CSIRS |
|         |         |         |         |         | \_\ FR2 | \_\ FR2 |
|         |         |         |         |         | \_NCM~) | \_NCM~) |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| **NE-DC | 1       | 2×(     | N/A     | 2x(1+   | 2×(     | 2×(     |
| with    | +N~PCC\ | N~SC    |         | N~S     | N~SC    | N~SC    |
| FR1     | _CSIRS~ | C\_SSB~ |         | CC\_CSI | C\_SSB~ | C\_SSB~ |
| +FR2 CA |         | +Y+2\*  |         | RS\_FR2 | +Y+2x   | +Y+2x   |
| (FR1    |         | N~SCC\  |         | \_NCM~) | N~SCC\  | N~SCC\  |
| PCell)  |         | _CSIRS~ |         | ^Not    | _CSIRS~ | _CSIRS~ |
| ^Not    |         | -       |         | e\ 3,5^ | -       | -       |
| e\ 1^** |         | 1-N~SCC |         |         | 1-N~SCC | 1-N~SCC |
|         |         | \_CSIRS |         |         | \_CSIRS | \_CSIRS |
|         |         | \_\ FR2 |         |         | \_\ FR2 | \_\ FR2 |
|         |         | \_NCM~) |         |         | \_NCM~) | \_NCM~) |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Note 1: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Only    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| one FR1 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| op      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| erating |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| band    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and one |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| FR2     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| op      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| erating |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| band    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| are     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| i       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ncluded |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| FR1+FR2 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| int     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| er-band |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CA.     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 2: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Se      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| lection |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of FR2  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SCC     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| where   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ne      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ighbour |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cell    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| r       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| equired |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| follows |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| clause  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 9       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| .2.3.2. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 3: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSSF~o  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| utside\ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| _gap,i~ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| =1 if   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| only    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| one     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SCell   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and no  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| i       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| nter-fr |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| equency |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| MO      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| without |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| gap and |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| only    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SSB     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| based   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| L3      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| on SCC; |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSSF~o  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| utside\ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| _gap,i~ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| =2 if   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| only    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| one     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SCell   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and no  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| i       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| nter-fr |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| equency |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| MO      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| without |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| gap and |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| either  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| both    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SSB and |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSI-RS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| based   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| L3      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| or only |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSI-RS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| based   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| L3      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| on SCC. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 4: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Y is    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| number  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| i       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| nter-fr |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| equency |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| MOs     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| without |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| MG that |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| are     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| being   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| m       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| easured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| outside |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of MG.  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 5: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Only    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| two NR  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| FR2     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| op      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| erating |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| band    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| are     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| i       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ncluded |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NE-DC   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| with    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| FR2     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| only    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| int     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| er-band |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CA.     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 6: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| N       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ~PCC\_C |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SIRS~=1 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| if PCC  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is with |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| either  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| both    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SSB and |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSI-RS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| based   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| L3      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| or only |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSI-RS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| based   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| L3      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| conf    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| igured; |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| oth     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| erwise, |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| N~PCC\  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| _CSIRS~ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| =0.     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 7: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| N~SCC\  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| _CSIRS~ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| =Number |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| S       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Cell(s) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| with    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| either  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| both    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SSB and |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSI-RS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| based   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| L3      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| or only |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSI-RS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| based   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| L3      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 8: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| N~SC    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| C\_CSIR |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| S\_FR2\ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| _NCM~=1 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| if FR2  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SCC,    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| where   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ne      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ighbour |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cell    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| re      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| quired, |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is with |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| either  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| both    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SSB and |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSI-RS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| or only |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| CSI-RS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| conf    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| igured; |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| oth     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| erwise, |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| N~SCC   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| \_CSIRS |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| \_FR2\_ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NCM~=0. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 9: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| N~SC    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| C\_SSB~ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| =Number |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| S       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Cell(s) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| with    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| only    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SSB     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| based   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| L3      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

#### 9.1.5.2 Monitoring of multiple layers within gaps

The carrier-specific scaling factor CSSF~within\_gap,i~ for a
measurement object *i derived in this chapter is applied to following
measurement types:*

\- SSB-based intra-frequency measurement object with no measurement gap
in clause 9.2.5 and 9.2A.5, when all of the SMTC occasions of this
intra-frequency measurement object are overlapped by the measurement
gap.

\- SSB-based intra-frequency measurement object with measurement gap in
clause 9.2.6 and 9.2A.6.

\- CSI-RS based inter-frequency measurement in clause 9.10.3, when
CSI-RS resources for L3 measurement of this inter-frequency measurement
object are overlapped by the measurement gap.

\- CSI-RS based inter-frequency measurement in clause 9.10.3, when
CSI-RS resources for L3 measurement of this inter-frequency measurement
object are partially overlapped by the measurement gap.

\- SSB-based inter-frequency measurement object with measurement gap in
clause 9.3.4.

\- SSB-based inter-frequency measurement object without measurement gap
for UE capable of *interFrequencyMeas-NoGap* in clause 9.3.9, when

\- all of the SMTC occasions of this inter-frequency measurement object
are overlapped by the measurement gap, or

\- part of the SMTC occasions of this inter-frequency measurement object
are overlapped by the measurement gap, but the flag
*interFrequencyConfig-NoGap-r16* is not configured by the Network.

\- Intra-frequency RSSI/CO measurement with measurement gap in clause
9.2A.7.

\- Intra-frequency RSSI/CO measurement with no measurement gap in clause
9.2A.7 when all of the RMTC occasions of this intra-frequency RSSI/CO
measurement are overlapped by the measurement gap

\- Inter-frequency RSSI/CO measurement in clause 9.3A.8 and 9.3A.9.

\- E-UTRA Inter-RAT measurement object in clauses 9.4.2 and 9.4.3.

\- For a UE in E-UTRA-NR dual connectivity operation, NR SSB-based
Inter-RAT measurement object configured by the E-UTRAN PCell (TS 36.133
\[15\] clause 8.17.4) on an NR serving carrier

\- the SSB is not completely contained in the active BWP of the UE, or

\- all of the SMTC occasions of this inter-RAT measurement object are
overlapped by the measurement gap;

\- NR SSB-based Inter-RAT measurement object configured by the E-UTRAN
PCell (TS 36.133 \[15\] clause 8.17.4) on an NR non-serving carrier.

\- E-UTRAN Inter-frequency measurement object configured by the E-UTRAN
PCell (TS 36.133 \[15\] clause 8.17.3) and by the E-UTRAN PSCell (TS
36.133 \[15\] clause 8.19.3).

\- E-UTRAN Inter-frequency RSTD measurement configured by the E-UTRAN
PCell (TS 36.133 \[15\] clause 8.17.15).

\- UTRA Inter-RAT measurement object configured by the E-UTRAN PCell (TS
36.133 \[15\] clauses 8.17.5 to 8.17.12).

\- GSM Inter-RAT measurements configured by the E-UTRAN PCell (TS 36.133
\[15\] clauses 8.17.13 and 8.17.14).

UE is expected to conduct the measurement of this measurement object *i*
only within the measurement gaps.

If the higher layer signaling in TS 38.331 \[2\] of *smtc2* is present
and *smtc1* is fully overlapping with measurement gaps and *smtc2* is
partially overlapping with measurement gaps, CSSF~within\_gap,i~ and
requirements derived from CSSF~outside\_gap,i~ are not specified.

Number of SSB layers should include SSB for mobility and that as
associated SSB for CSI-RS mobility. The ssbfrequency is counted only
once if the ssbfrequency for mobility and associated SSB are the same,
or ssbfrequency and smtc in multiple MOs are the same.

SSB-based measurement and CSI-RS based measurement for mobility
configured in the same measurement object are considered as different
layers.

##### 9.1.5.2.1 EN-DC mode: carrier-specific scaling factor for SSB, CSI-RS-based L3 measurements and RSSI and channel occupancy measurements performed within gaps

The scaling value CSSF~within\_gap,i~ below has been derived without
considering GSM inter-RAT carriers.

When one or more measurement objects are monitored within measurement
gaps, the carrier specific scaling factor for a target measurement
object with index *i* is designated as CSSF~within\_gap,i~ and is
derived as described in this clause.

For UE supporting per-FR gap, for each measurement object *i* that are
measured based on effective MGRP as defined in clause 9.1.2,
CSSF~within\_gap,i~ used for derving the measurement requirements is
defined as 2\*N~with\_CSI-RS~ + N~SSB\_only~, where

\- N~with\_CSI-RS~ is the number of measurement objects with either both
SSB and CSI-RS based L3 configured or only CSI-RS based L3 measurement
configured in the same FR as measurement object *i*, and

\- N~SSB\_only~ is the number of measurement objects with only SSB based
L3 measurement configured in the same FR as measurement object *i*.

For a UE in E-UTRA-NR dual connectivity operation, if a SSB-based
measurement object configured by PSCell and an NR SSB-based inter-RAT
measurement object configured by E-UTRAN PCell are on the same carrier,
they shall be counted as one measurement object in M~tot,i,j~, provided
that they meet the measurement object merging conditions \[in clause
9.1.3.2\].

If measurement object *i* refers to an RSTD measurement with periodicity
Tprs\>160ms or with periodicity Tprs=160ms but *prs-MutingInfo-r9* is
configured, CSSF~within\_gap,i~=1. Otherwise, the CSSF~within\_gap,i~
for other measurement objects (including RSTD measurement with
periodicity Tprs=160ms) participate in the gap competition are derived
as below.

For each measurement gap *j* not used for an RSTD measurement with
periodicity Tprs\>160ms or with periodicity Tprs=160ms but
*prs-MutingInfo-r9* is configured within an arbitrary 160ms period,
count the total number of intra-frequency measurement objects and
inter-frequency/inter-RAT measurement objects which are candidates to be
measured within the gap *j*.

\- An NR measurement object with SSB measurement configured is a
candidate to be measured in a gap if its SMTC duration is fully covered
by the MGL excluding RF switching time. For intra-frequency NR carriers,
if the higher layer in TS 38.331 \[2\] signaling of *smtc2* is
configured, the assumed periodicity of SMTC occasions corresponds to the
value of higher layer parameter *smtc2*; otherwise the assumed
periodicity of SMTC occasions corresponds to the value of higher layer
parameter *smtc1*.

\- An NR measurement object with CSI-RS measurement configured is a
candidate to be measured in a gap if the window confining all CSI-RS
resources are fully covered by the MGL excluding RF switching time. -

\- An NR measurement object with RSSI and channel occupancy measurement
is a candidate to be measurement in a gap if the RMTC duration is fully
covered by MGL excluding RF switching time.

\- An inter-RAT UTRA measurement object configured by E-UTRA PCell
\[15\] is a candidate to be measured in all measurement gaps.

\- An inter-frequency E-UTRA measurement object configured by E-UTRA
PCell \[15\] is a candidate to be measured in all measurement gaps.

\- For UEs which support and are configured with per FR gaps, the
counting is done on a per FR basis, and for UEs which are configured
with per UE gaps the counting is done on a per UE basis.

\- M~intra,i,j~: Number of intra-frequency measurement objects,
including both SSB, CSI-RS based and RSSI/CO measurement, which are
candidates to be measured in gap *j* where the measurement object *i* is
also a candidate. Otherwise M~intra,i,j~ equals 0.

\- M~inter,i,j~ : Number of NR inter-frequency layers including both SSB
and CSI-RS based, NR inter-RAT frequency layer and RSSI/CO measurement,
configured by E-UTRA PCell, EUTRA inter-frequency measurement objects
configured by E-UTRA PCell, or UTRA inter-RAT measurement objects
configured by E-UTRA PCell which are candidates to be measured in gap
*j* where the measurement object *i* is also a candidate. Otherwise
M~inter,i,j~ equals 0.

\- A measurement object *i* in M~intra,i,j~ and in M~inter,i,j~ is
counted twice if the measurement object is configured with both RMTC and
SMTC which are candidates to be measured in gap *j* where the
measurement object *i* is also a candidate

\- M~tot,i,j~ = M~intra,i,j~ + M~inter,i,j~ : Total number of
intra-frequency, inter-frequency and inter-RAT frequency layers which
are candidates to be measured in gap *j* where the measurement object
*i* is also a candidate. Otherwise M~tot,i,j~ equals 0.

For each measurement gap *j* used for an RSTD measurement with
periodicity Tprs\>160ms or with periodicity Tprs=160ms but
*prs-MutingInfo-r9* is configured within an arbitrary 160ms period,
M~intra,i,j~ = M~inter,i,j~ = M~tot,i,j~ =0.

The carrier specific scaling factor CSSF~within\_gap,i~ is given by:

If *measGapSharingScheme* is equal sharing, CSSF~within\_gap,i~=
max(ceil(R~i~×M~tot,i,j~)), where *j*=0...(160/MGRP)-1

If *measGapSharingScheme* is not equal sharing and

\- measurement object *i* is an intra-frequency measurement object,
CSSF~within\_gap,i~ is the maximum among

\- ceil(R~i~×K~intra~×M~intra,i,j~) in gaps where M~inter,i,j~≠0, where
*j*=0...(160/MGRP)-1

\- ceil(R~i~×M~intra,i,j~) in gaps where M~inter,i,j~=0, where
*j*=0...(160/MGRP)-1

\- measurement object *i* is an inter-frequency or inter-RAT measurement
object, CSSF~within\_gap,i~ is the maximum among

\- ceil(R~i~×K~inter~×M~inter,i,j~) in gaps where M~intra,i,j~ ≠0, where
*j*=0...(160/MGRP)-1

\- ceil(R~i~×M~inter,i,j~) in gaps where M~intra,i,j~=0, where
*j*=0...(160/MGRP)-1

Where R~i~ is the maximal ratio of the number of measurement gap where
measurement object *i* is a candidate to be measured over the number of
measurement gap where measurement object *i* is a candidate and not used
for RSTD measurement with periodicity Tprs\>160ms or with periodicity
Tprs=160ms but *prs-MutingInfo-r9* is configured within an arbitrary
1280ms period.

##### 9.1.5.2.2 SA mode: carrier-specific scaling factor for SSB, CSI-RS-based L3 measurements and RSSI and channel occupancy measurements performed within gaps

When one or more measurement objects are monitored within measurement
gaps, the carrier specific scaling factor for a target measurement
object with index *i* is designated as CSSF~within\_gap,i~ and is
derived as described in this clause.

For UE supporting per-FR gap, for each measurement object *i* that are
measured based on effective MGRP as defined in clause 9.1.2,
CSSF~within\_gap,i~ used for derving the measurement requirements is
defined as 2\*N~with\_CSI-RS~ + N~SSB\_only~, where

\- N~with\_CSI-RS~ is the number of measurement objects with either both
SSB and CSI-RS based L3 configured or only CSI-RS based L3 measurement
configured in the same FR as measurement object *i*, and

\- N~SSB\_only~ is the number of measurement objects with only SSB based
L3 measurement configured in the same FR as measurement object *i*.

If measurement object *i* refers to a long-periodicity measurement which
is any of:

\- an E-UTRA RSTD measurement with periodicity Tprs\>160ms or with
periodicity Tprs=160ms but *prs-MutingInfo-r9* is configured, or

\- an NR measurement for positioning frequency layer i with
T~available\_PRS,i~ \>160ms, where T~available\_PRS,i~ is defined in
clauses 9.9.2.5, 9.9.3.5 and 9.9.4.5 for RSTD, PRS-RSRP and UE Rx-Tx
time difference measurements, respectively.

then CSSF~within\_gap,i~=1. Otherwise, the CSSF~within\_gap,i~ for other
measurement objects (including E-UTRA RSTD measurement with periodicity
Tprs=160ms) participate in the gap competition and the
CSSF~within\_gap,i~ are derived as below.

Table 9.1.5.2.2-1: void

When multiple positioning frequency layers are configured,

-   for each positioning frequency layer *i*, CSSF~within\_gap,i~ is
    derived with the following steps assuming no other positioning
    frequency layer is configured.

-   for each RRM frequency layer *i*, CSSF~within\_gap,i~ is derived as
    follows:

    -   an intermediate CSSF~within\_gap,i,k~ is derived with the
        following steps assuming only positioning frequency layer *k* is
        configured, and

    -   CSSF~within\_gap,i~= max(CSSF~within\_gap,i,k~), where
        *k*=0...K-1, and K is the number of configured positioning
        frequency layers.

For each measurement gap *j* not used for a long-periodicity measurement
defined above, count the total number of intra-frequency measurement
objects and inter-frequency/inter-RAT measurement objects and NR PRS
measurements on all positioning frequency layers which are candidates to
be measured within the gap *j*.

\- An NR measurement object with SSB measurement configured is a
candidate to be measured in a gap if its SMTC duration is fully covered
by the MGL excluding RF switching time. For intra-frequency NR
measurement objects, if the higher layer in TS 38.331 \[2\] signaling of
*smtc2* is configured, the assumed periodicity of SMTC occasions
corresponds to the value of higher layer parameter *smtc2*; otherwise
the assumed periodicity of SMTC occasions corresponds to the value of
higher layer parameter *smtc1*.

\- An NR measurement object with CSI-RS measurement configured is a
candidate to be measured in a gap if the window confining all CSI-RS
resources are fully covered by the MGL excluding RF switching time.

\- An NR measurement object with RSSI and channel occupancy measurement
is a candidate to be measurement in a gap if the RMTC duration is fully
covered by MGL excluding RF switching time.

\- An inter-frequency SFTD measurement object, if to be measured with
measurement gaps, is a candidate to be measured in all measurement gaps.

\- A positioning frequency layer is counted as candidate for a MG
occasion if at least one PRS resource on that positioning frequency
layer is fully covered by the MGL excluding RF switching time.

\- For UEs which support and are configured with per FR gaps, the
counting is done on a per FR basis, and for UEs which are configured
with per UE gaps the counting is done on a per UE basis. For UEs which
support and are configured with per FR gaps, the CSSF requirements do
not apply when NR PRS measurement in one FR gap collides with
SSB/CSI-RS/PRS measurements in the other FR gap in time domain.

\- M~intra,i,j~: Number of intra-frequency measurement objects,
including both SSB, CSI-RS based and RSSI/CO measurements, which are
candidates to be measured in gap *j* where the measurement object *i* is
also a candidate. Otherwise M~intra,i,j~ equals 0.

> \- M~inter,i,j~ : Number of NR inter-frequency layers including both
> SSB and CSI-RS based, EUTRA inter-RAT and UTRA inter-RAT frequency
> layers, up to one positioning frequency layer, RSSI/CO measurements,
> which are candidates to be measured in gap *j* where the measurement
> object *i* is also a candidate. Otherwise M~inter,i,j~ equals 0.

\- A measurement object *i* in M~intra,i,j~ and in M~inter,i,j~ is
counted twice if the measurement object is configured with both RMTC and
SMTC which are candidates to be measured in gap *j* where the
measurement object *i* is also a candidate

\- M~tot,i,j~ = M~intra,i,j~ + M~inter,i,j~ : Total number of
intra-frequency, inter-frequency and inter-RAT frequncy layers and up to
one NR PRS measurement on any one positioning frequency layer, which are
candidates to be measured in gap *j* where the measurement object *i* is
also a candidate. Otherwise M~tot,i,j~ equals 0.

For each measurement gap *j* used for a long-periodicity measurement
defined above, M~intra,i,j~ = M~inter,i,j~ = M~tot,i,j~ =0. The carrier
specific scaling factor CSSF~within\_gap,i~ is given by:

If *measGapSharingScheme* is equal sharing, CSSF~within\_gap,i~=
max(ceil(R~i~×M~tot,i,j~)), where *j*=0...(160/MGRP)-1

If *measGapSharingScheme* is not equal sharing and

\- measurement object *i* is an intra-frequency measurement object,
CSSF~within\_gap,i~ is the maximum among

\- ceil(R~i~×K~intra~×M~intra,i,j~) in gaps where M~inter,i,j~≠0, where
*j*=0...(160/MGRP)-1

\- ceil(R~i~×M~intra,i,j~) in gaps where M~inter,i,j~=0, where
*j*=0...(160/MGRP)-1

\- measurement object *i* is an inter-frequency or inter-RAT measurement
object or NR PRS measurement on any one positioning frequency layer,
CSSF~within\_gap,i~ is the maximum among

\- ceil(R~i~×K~inter~×M~inter,i,j~) in gaps where M~intra,i,j~ ≠0, where
*j*=0...(160/MGRP)-1

\- ceil(R~i~×M~inter,i,j~) in gaps where M~intra,i,j~=0, where
*j*=0...(160/MGRP)-1

Where R~i~ is the maximal ratio of the number of measurement gap where
measurement object *i* is a candidate to be measured over the number of
measurement gap where measurement object *i* is a candidate and not used
for a long-periodicity measurement defined above.

CSSF~within\_gap,k~=1 during T~Detect,\ E-UTRAN\ FDD~ specified in
clause 9.4.4.1.2.2 and T~Detect,\ E-UTRAN\ TDD~ specified in clause
9.4.4.2.2.2, where k is the carrier frequency where the UE is performing
cell detection of the inter-RAT E-UTRA OTDOA assistance data reference
cell when acquiring the subframe and slot timing of the cell according
to clause 9.4.4. In this case, the UE cell identification and
measurement periods derived based on CSSF~within\_gap,i~ in clauses
9.2.5.1, 9.2.5.2, 9.2.6.2, 9.2.6.3, 9.3.4, 9.3.5, 9.4.2.2, 9.4.2.3 and
9.10.2 may be extended for measurement objects of which the cell
identification and measurement periods are overlapped with
T~Detect,\ E-UTRAN\ FDD~ and T~Detect,\ E-UTRAN\ TDD~.

##### 9.1.5.2.3 NE-DC: carrier-specific scaling factor for SSB-based and CSI-RS based L3 measurements performed within gaps

When one or more measurement objects are monitored within measurement
gaps, the carrier specific scaling factor for a target measurement
object with index *i* is designated as CSSF~within\_gap,i~ and is
derived as described in this clause.

For UE supporting per-FR gap, for each measurement object *i* that are
measured based on effective MGRP as defined in clause 9.1.2,
CSSF~within\_gap,i~ used for derving the measurement requirements is
defined as 2\*N~with\_CSI-RS~ + N~SSB\_only~, where

\- N~with\_CSI-RS~ is the number of measurement objects with either both
SSB and CSI-RS based L3 configured or only CSI-RS based L3 measurement
configured in the same FR as measurement object *i*, and

\- N~SSB\_only~ is the number of measurement objects with only SSB based
L3 measurement configured in the same FR as measurement object *i*.

If measurement object *i* refers to a long-periodicty measurement which
is any of:

\- an E-UTRA RSTD measurement with periodicity Tprs\>160ms or with
periodicity Tprs=160ms but *prs-MutingInfo-r9* is configured, or

\- an NR measurement for positioning frequency layer i with
T~available\_PRS,i~ \>160ms, where T~available\_PRS,i~ is defined in
clauses 9.9.2.5, 9.9.3.5 and 9.9.4.5 for RSTD, PRS-RSRP and UE Rx-Tx
time difference measurements, respectively.

then CSSF~within\_gap,i~=1. Otherwise, the CSSF~within\_gap,i~ for other
measurement objects (including E-UTRA RSTD measurement with periodicity
Tprs=160ms) participate in the gap competition are derived as below.

When multiple positioning frequency layers are configured,

-   for each positioning frequency layer *i*, CSSF~within\_gap,i~ is
    derived with the following steps assuming no other positioning
    frequency layer is configured.

-   for each RRM frequency layer *i*, CSSF~within\_gap,i~ is derived as
    follows:

    -   an intermediate CSSF~within\_gap,i,k~ is derived with the
        following steps assuming only positioning frequency layer *k* is
        configured, and

    -   CSSF~within\_gap,i~= max(CSSF~within\_gap,i,k~), where
        *k*=0...K-1, and K is the number of configured positioning
        frequency layers.

For each measurement gap *j* not used for a long-periodicity measurement
defined above, count the total number of intra-frequency measurement
objects and inter-frequency/inter-RAT measurement objects and NR PRS
measurements on all positioning frequency layers which are candidates to
be measured within the gap *j*.

\- An NR measurement object with SSB measurement configured is a
candidate to be measured in a gap if its SMTC duration is fully covered
by the MGL excluding RF switching time. For intra-frequency NR
measurement objects, if the higher layer in TS 38.331 \[2\] signaling of
*smtc2* is configured, the assumed periodicity of SMTC occasions
corresponds to the value of higher layer parameter *smtc2*; otherwise
the assumed periodicity of SMTC occasions corresponds to the value of
higher layer parameter *smtc1*.

\- An NR measurement object with CSI-RS measurement configured is a
candidate to be measured in a gap if the window confining all CSI-RS
resources are fully covered by the MGL excluding RF switching time.

\- An inter-RAT measurement object is a candidate to be measured in all
measurement gaps.

\- An inter-frequency E-UTRA measurement object is a candidate to be
measured in all measurement gaps.

> \- A positioning frequency layer is counted as candidate for a MG
> occasion if at least one PRS resource on that positioning frequency
> layer is fully covered by the MGL excluding RF switching time.

For UEs which support and are configured with per FR gaps, the counting
is done on a per FR basis, and for UEs which are configured with per UE
gaps the counting is done on a per UE basis. For UEs which support and
are configured with per FR gaps, the CSSF requirements do not apply when
NR PRS measurement in one FR gap collides with SSB/CSI-RS/PRS
measurements in the other FR gap in time domain.

If the number of configured interfrequency and interRAT measuerement
objects and NR PRS measurements on all positioning frequency layers is
non-zero and the UE is configured with per UE gaps, or if the UE is
configured with per FR gaps:

FR1 and FR2 intrafrequency measurement objects belong to group A

Interfrequency and interRAT measurement objects belong to group B

M~groupA,i,j~: Sum of the number of FR1 intra-frequency measurement
objects M~intra-FR1,i,j~ and the number of FR2 intra-frequency
measurement objects M~intra-FR2,i,j~ , including both SSB and CSI-RS
based, which are candidates to be measured in gap *j* where the
measurement object *i* is also a candidate. Otherwise M~groupA,i,j~
equals 0.

> M~groupBi,j~: Number of NR inter-frequency layers including both SSB
> and CSI-RS based, EUTRA inter-RAT and UTRA inter-RAT measurement
> objects, up to one positioning frequency layer, which are candidates
> to be measured in gap *j* where the measurement object *i* is also a
> candidate. Otherwise M~groupB,i,j~ equals 0.

If the number of configured inter-frequency and inter-RAT measuerement
objects and NR PRS measurements on all positioning frequency layers is
zero and the UE is configured with per UE gaps:

FR1 intrafrequency measurement objects belong to group A

FR2 intrafrequency measurement objects belong to group B

M~groupA,i,j~: The number of FR1 intrafrequency measurement objects
M~intra-FR1,i,j~ , including both SSB and CSI-RS based, which are
candidates to be measured in gap *j* where the measurement object *i* is
also a candidate. Otherwise M~groupA,i,j~ equals 0.

M~groupBi,j~ : The number of FR2 intrafrequency measurement objects
M~intra-FR2,i,j~ , including both SSB and CSI-RS based, which are
candidates to be measured in gap *j* where the measurement object *i* is
also a candidate. Otherwise M~groupB,i,j~ equals 0.

M~tot,i,j~ = M~groupA,i,j~ + M~groupB,i,j~ : Total number of group A and
group B measurement objects which are candidates to be measured in gap
*j* where the measurement object *i* is also a candidate. Otherwise
M~tot,i,j~ equals 0.

For each measurement gap *j* used for a long-periodicity measurement
defined above, M~intra,i,j~ = M~inter,i,j~ = M~tot,i,j~ =0. The carrier
specific scaling factor CSSF~within\_gap,i~ is given by:

If *measGapSharingScheme* is equal sharing, CSSF~within\_gap,i~=
max(ceil(R~i~×M~tot,i,j~)), where *j*=0...(160/MGRP)-1

If *measGapSharingScheme* is not equal sharing and

\- measurement object *i* is a group A measurement object,
CSSF~within\_gap,i~ is the maximum among

\- ceil(R~i~×K~intra~×M~groupA,i,j~) in gaps where M~groupB,i,j~≠0,
where *j*=0...(160/MGRP)-1

\- ceil(R~i~×M~groupA,i,j~) in gaps where M~groupB,i,j~=0, where
*j*=0...(160/MGRP)-1

\- measurement object *i* is an group B measurement object,
CSSF~within\_gap,i~ is the maximum among

\- ceil(R~i~×K~inter~×M~groupBi,j~) in gaps where M~groupA,i,j~ ≠0,
where *j*=0...(160/MGRP)-1

\- ceil(R~i~×M~groupB,i,j~) in gaps where M~groupA,i,j~=0, where
*j*=0...(160/MGRP)-1

Where R~i~ is the maximal ratio of the number of measurement gap where
measurement object *i* is a candidate to be measured over the number of
measurement gap where measurement object *i* is a candidate and not used
for a long-periodicity measurement defined above.

##### 9.1.5.2.4 NR-DC: carrier-specific scaling factor for SSB-based and CSI-RS-based L3 measurements performed within gaps

When one or more measurement objects are monitored within measurement
gaps, the carrier specific scaling factor for a target measurement
object with index *i* is designated as CSSF~within\_gap,i~ and is
derived as described in this clause.

For UE supporting per-FR gap, for each measurement object *i* that are
measured based on effective MGRP as defined in clause 9.1.2,
CSSF~within\_gap,i~ used for derving the measurement requirements is
defined as 2\*N~with\_CSI-RS~ + N~SSB\_only~, where

\- N~with\_CSI-RS~ is the number of measurement objects with either both
SSB and CSI-RS based L3 configured or only CSI-RS based L3 measurement
configured in the same FR as measurement object *i*, and

\- N~SSB\_only~ is the number of measurement objects with only SSB based
L3 measurement configured in the same FR as measurement object *i*.

If measurement object *i* refers to a long-periodicity measurement which
is any of:

\- an E-UTRA RSTD measurement with periodicity Tprs\>160ms or with
periodicity Tprs=160ms but *prs-MutingInfo-r9* is configured, or

\- an NR measurement for positioning frequency layer i with
T~available\_PRS,i~ \>160ms, where T~available\_PRS,i~ is defined in
clauses 9.9.2.5, 9.9.3.5 and 9.9.4.5 for RSTD, PRS-RSRP and UE Rx-Tx
time difference measurements, respectively.

then CSSF~within\_gap,i~=1. Otherwise, the CSSF~within\_gap,i~ for other
measurement objects (including E-UTRA RSTD measurement with periodicity
Tprs=160ms) participate in the gap competition and the
CSSF~within\_gap,i~ are derived as below.

When multiple positioning frequency layers are configured,

\- for each positioning frequency layer *i*, CSSF~within\_gap,i~ is
derived with the following steps assuming no other positioning frequency
layer is configured.

\- for each RRM frequency layer *i*, CSSF~within\_gap,i~ is derived as
follows:

\- an intermediate CSSF~within\_gap,i,k~ is derived with the following
steps assuming only positioning frequency layer *k* is configured, and

\- CSSF~within\_gap,i~= max(CSSF~within\_gap,i,k~), where *k*=0...K-1,
and K is the number of configured positioning frequency layers.

For each measurement gap *j* not used for an RSTD measurement with
periodicity Tprs\>160ms or with periodicity Tprs=160ms but
*prs-MutingInfo-r9* is configured within an arbitrary 160ms period,
count the total number of intra-frequency measurement objects and
inter-frequency/inter-RAT measurement objects and NR PRS measurements on
all positioning frequency layers which are candidates to be measured
within the gap *j*.

\- An NR measurement object with SSB measurement configured is a
candidate to be measured in a gap if its SMTC duration is fully covered
by the MGL excluding RF switching time. For intra-frequency NR
measurement objects, if the higher layer in TS 38.331 \[2\] signaling of
*smtc2* is configured, the assumed periodicity of SMTC occasions
corresponds to the value of higher layer parameter *smtc2*; otherwise
the assumed periodicity of SMTC occasions corresponds to the value of
higher layer parameter *smtc1*.

\- An NR measurement object with CSI-RS measurement configured is a
candidate to be measured in a gap if the window confining all CSI-RS
resources are fully covered by the MGL excluding RF switching time.

> \- A positioning frequency layer is counted as candidate for a MG
> occasion if at least one PRS resource on that positioning frequency
> layer is fully covered by the MGL excluding RF switching time.

For UEs which support and are configured with per FR gaps, the counting
is done on a per FR basis, and for UEs which are configured with per UE
gaps the counting is done on a per UE basis. For UEs which support and
are configured with per FR gaps, the CSSF requirements do not apply when
NR PRS measurement in one FR gap collides with SSB/CSI-RS/PRS
measurements in the other FR gap in time domain.

If the number of configured interfrequency and interRAT measuerement
objects and NR PRS measurements on all positioning frequency layers is
non-zero and the UE is configured with per UE gaps, or if the UE is
configured with per FR gaps:

FR1 and FR2 intrafrequency measurement objects belong to group A

Interfrequency and interRAT measurement objects and up to one NR PRS
measurement on any one positioning frequency layer belong to group B

M~groupA,i,j~: Sum of the number of FR1 intra-frequency measurement
objects M~intra-FR1,i,j~ and the number of FR2 intra-frequency
measurement objects M~intra-FR2,i,j~ , including both SSB and CSI-RS
based, which are candidates to be measured in gap *j* where the
measurement object *i* is also a candidate. Otherwise M~groupA,i,j~
equals 0.

> M~groupBi,j~ : Number of NR inter-frequency layers including both SSB
> and CSI-RS based, EUTRA inter-RAT and UTRA inter-RAT measurement
> objects and up to one positioning frequency layer, which are
> candidates to be measured in gap *j* where the measurement object *i*
> is also a candidate. Otherwise M~groupB,i,j~ equals 0.

If the number of configured interfrequency and interRAT measuerement
objects and NR PRS measurements on all positioning frequency layers is
zero and the UE is configured with per UE gaps:

FR1 intrafrequency measurement objects belong to group A

FR2 intrafrequency measurement objects belong to group B

M~groupA,i,j~: The number of FR1 intrafrequency measurement objects
M~intra-FR1,i,j~ , including both SSB and CSI-RS based, which are
candidates to be measured in gap *j* where the measurement object *i* is
also a candidate. Otherwise M~groupA,i,j~ equals 0.

M~groupBi,j~ : The number of FR2 intrafrequency measurement objects
M~intra-FR2,i,j~ , including both SSB and CSI-RS based, which are
candidates to be measured in gap *j* where the measurement object *i* is
also a candidate. Otherwise M~groupB,i,j~ equals 0.

M~tot,i,j~ = M~groupA,i,j~ + M~groupB,i,j~ : Total number of group A and
group B measurement objects which are candidates to be measured in gap
*j* where the measurement object *i* is also a candidate. Otherwise
M~tot,i,j~ equals 0.

For each measurement gap *j* used for a long-periodicity measurement
defined above, M~intra,i,j~ = M~inter,i,j~ = M~tot,i,j~ =0. The carrier
specific scaling factor CSSF~within\_gap,i~ is given by:

If *measGapSharingScheme* is equal sharing, CSSF~within\_gap,i~=
max(ceil(R~i~×M~tot,i,j~)), where *j*=0...(160/MGRP)-1

If *measGapSharingScheme* is not equal sharing and

\- measurement object *i* is a group A measurement object,
CSSF~within\_gap,i~ is the maximum among

\- ceil(R~i~×K~intra~×M~groupA,i,j~) in gaps where M~groupB,i,j~≠0,
where *j*=0...(160/MGRP)-1

\- ceil(R~i~×M~groupA,i,j~) in gaps where M~groupB,i,j~=0, where
*j*=0...(160/MGRP)-1

\- measurement object *i* is an group B measurement object,
CSSF~within\_gap,i~ is the maximum among

\- ceil(R~i~×K~inter~×M~groupBi,j~) in gaps where M~groupA,i,j~ ≠0,
where *j*=0...(160/MGRP)-1

\- ceil(R~i~×M~groupB,i,j~) in gaps where M~groupA,i,j~=0, where
*j*=0...(160/MGRP)-1

R~i~ is the maximal ratio of the number of measurement gap where
measurement object *i* is a candidate to be measured over the number of
measurement gap where measurement object *i* is a candidate and not used
for a long-periodicity measurement defined above.

##### 9.1.5.2.5 SA mode: carrier-specific scaling factor for PRS-based measurements performed within gaps

The requirements in this clause apply for NR PRS-based measurements for
positioning in clause 9.9.

When NR PRS-based measurements for positioning are configured on one or
more positioning frequency layers within measurement gaps, the carrier
specific scaling factor for a target PRS-based positioning measurement
on a positioning frequency layer with index *i* is designated as
CSSF~within\_gap,i~ and is derived as described in clause 9.1.5.2.2.

*NR Positioning measurement requirements for long periodicity
measurements apply in case all PRS resources in the PFL are configured
with periodicity \> 160 ms.*

##### 9.1.5.2.6 NE-DC: carrier-specific scaling factor for PRS-based measurements performed within gaps

The requirements in this clause apply for NR PRS-based measurements for
positioning in clause 9.9.

When NR PRS-based measurements for positioning are configured on one or
more positioning frequency layers within measurement gaps, the carrier
specific scaling factor for a target measurement on a positioning
frequency layer with index *i* is designated as CSSF~within\_gap,i~ and
is derived as described in clause 9.1.5.2.3.

*NR Positioning measurement requirements for long periodicity
measurements apply in case all PRS resources in the PFL are configured
with periodicity \> 160 ms.*

##### 9.1.5.2.7 NR-DC: carrier-specific scaling factor for PRS-based measurements performed within gaps

The requirements in this clause apply for NR PRS-based measurements for
positioning in clause 9.9.

When NR PRS-based measurements for positioning are configured on one or
more positioning frequency layers within measurement gaps, the carrier
specific scaling factor for a target measurement on a positioning
frequency layer with index *i* is designated as CSSF~within\_gap,i~ and
is derived as described in clause 9.1.5.2.4.

*NR Positioning measurement requirements for long periodicity
measurements apply in case all PRS resources in the PFL are configured
with periodicity \> 160 ms.*

### 9.1.6 Minimum requirement at transitions

When the measurement on one intra-frequency measurement object
transitions from measurements performed outside gaps to measurements
performed within gaps or vice versa during one measurement period, the
cell identification and measurement period requirements with the longer
delay apply.

The carrier-specific scaling factor specified in clause 9.1.5 that
applies to the other impacted measurement objects will also apply based
on the longer measurement or cell identification delay before or after
the transition.

When the UE transitions between DRX and non-DRX or when DRX cycle
periodicity changes, the cell identification and measurement period
requirements apply based on the longer delay before or after the
transition.

Subsequent to this measurement period, the cell identification and
measurement period requirements on each measurement object are
corresponding to the second mode after transition.

9.2 NR intra-frequency measurements
-----------------------------------

### 9.2.1 Introduction

A measurement is defined as a SSB based intra-frequency measurement
provided the centre frequency of the SSB of the serving cell indicated
for measurement and the centre frequency of the SSB of the neighbour
cell are the same, and the subcarrier spacing of the two SSBs are also
the same.

The UE shall be able to identify new intra-frequency cells and perform
SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ, and SS-SINR measurements of identified intra-frequency
cells if carrier frequency information is provided by PCell or the
PSCell, even if no explicit neighbour list with physical layer cell
identities is provided.

The UE can perform intra-frequency SSB based measurements without
measurement gaps if

\- the UE indicates 'no-gap' via *intraFreq-needForGap* for
intra-frequency measurement, or

\- the SSB is completely contained in the active BWP of the UE, or

\- the active downlink BWP is initial BWP\[3\].

For intra-frequency SSB based measurements without measurement gaps, UE
may cause scheduling restriction as specified in clause 9.2.5.3.

SSB based measurements are configured along with one or two measurement
timing configuration(s) (SMTC(s)) which provides periodicity, duration
and offset information on a window of up to 5ms where the measurements
are to be performed. For intra-frequency connected mode measurements, up
to two measurement window periodicities may be configured. A single
measurement window offset and measurement duration are configured per
intra-frequency measurement object.

When measurement gaps are needed, the UE is not expected to detect SSB
and measure RSSI of RSRQ which start earlier than the gap starting time
+ switching time, nor detect SSB and measure RSSI of RSRQ which end
later than the gap end -- switching time. Switching time is 0.5ms for
frequency range FR1 and 0.25ms for frequency range FR2.

The requirements in this clause shall also apply, when the UE is
configured to perform SRS carrier based switching and using measurement
gaps.

The measurement requirements defined for an activated SCell with a
non-dormant active BWP defined in this clause shall also apply to an
activated SCell with dormant BWP as active BWP.

### 9.2.2 Requirements applicability

The requirements in clause 9.2 apply, provided:

\- The cell being identified or measured is detectable.

An intra-frequency cell shall be considered detectable when for each
relevant SSB:

\- SS-RSRP related side conditions given in clauses 10.1.2 and 10.1.3
for FR1 and FR2, respectively, for a corresponding Band,

\- SS-RSRQ related side conditions given in clauses 10.1.7 and 10.1.8
for FR1 and FR2, respectively, for a corresponding Band,

\- SS-SINR related side conditions given in clauses 10.1.12 and 10.1.13
for FR1 and FR2, respectively, for a corresponding Band,

\- SSB\_RP and SSB Ês/Iot according to Annex B.2.2 for a corresponding
Band.

### 9.2.3 Number of cells and number of SSB

#### 9.2.3.1 Requirements for FR1

For each intra-frequency layer, during each layer 1 measurement period,
the UE shall be capable of performing SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ, and SS-SINR
measurements for at least:

\- 8 identified cells, and

\- 14 SSBs with different SSB index and/or PCI on the intra-frequency
layer, where the number of SSBs in the serving cell (except for the
SCell) is not smaller than the number of configured RLM-RS SSB
resources.

#### 9.2.3.2 Requirements for FR2

For one single intra-frequency layer in a band, during each layer 1
measurement period, the UE shall be capable of performing SS-RSRP,
SS-RSRQ, and SS-SINR measurements for at least:

\- 6 identified cells, and

\- 24 SSBs with different SSB index and/or PCI,

where this single intra-frequency layer shall be:

\- PCC when UE is configured with SA NR operation mode with PCC in the
band; or

\- PSCC when UE is configured with EN-DC with PSCC in the band; or

\- PSCC when UE is configured with NR-DC with PSCC in the band; or

\- One of the SCCs on which UE is configured to report SSB based
measurements when neither PCC nor PSCC is in the same band, so that the
selected SCC shall be an SCC where the UE is configured with SS-RSRP
measurement reporting if such SCC exists, otherwise the selected SCC is
determined by UE implementation.

The UE shall also be capable of performing SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ, and SS-SINR
measurements for at least 2 SSBs on serving cell for each of the other
intra-frequency layer(s) in the same band.

### 9.2.4 Measurement Reporting Requirements

#### 9.2.4.1 Periodic Reporting

Reported RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR measurements contained in periodic
measurement reports shall meet the requirements in clauses 10.1.2.1
(RSRP for FR1), 10.1.3.1 (RSRP for FR2), 10.1.7.1 (RSRQ for FR1),
10.1.8.1 (RSRQ for FR2), 10.1.12.1 (RS-SINR for FR1) and 10.1.13.1
(RS-SINR for FR2).

#### 9.2.4.2 Event-triggered Periodic Reporting

Reported RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR measurements contained in
event-triggered periodic measurement reports shall meet the requirements
in clauses 10.1.2.1 (RSRP for FR1), 10.1.3.1 (RSRP for FR2), 10.1.7.1
(RSRQ for FR1), 10.1.8.1 (RSRQ for FR2), 10.1.12.1 (RS-SINR for FR1) and
10.1.13.1 (RS-SINR for FR2).

The first report in event triggered periodic measurement reporting shall
meet the requirements specified in clause 9.2.4.3.

#### 9.2.4.3 Event Triggered Reporting

Reported RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR measurements contained in event
triggered measurement reports shall meet the requirements in clauses
10.1.2.1 (RSRP for FR1), 10.1.3.1 (RSRP for FR2), 10.1.7.1 (RSRQ for
FR1), 10.1.8.1 (RSRQ for FR2), 10.1.12.1 (RS-SINR for FR1) and 10.1.13.1
(RS-SINR for FR2).

The UE shall not send any event triggered measurement reports as long as
no reporting criteria is fulfilled.

The measurement reporting delay is defined as the time between an event
that will trigger a measurement report and the point when the UE starts
to transmit the measurement report over the air interface. This
requirement assumes that the measurement report is not delayed by other
RRC signalling on the DCCH. This measurement reporting delay excludes a
delay uncertainty resulted when inserting the measurement report to the
TTI of the uplink DCCH. The delay uncertainty is: 2 x TTI~DCCH~. This
measurement reporting delay excludes a delay which caused by no UL
resources being available for UE to send the measurement report on.

The event triggered measurement reporting delay, measured without L3
filtering shall be less than T~identify\ intra\ with\ index~ or T
~identify\ intra\ without\ index~ defined in clause 9.2.5.1 or clause
9.2.6.2. When L3 filtering is used an additional delay can be expected.
In EN-DC and NE-DC operation, when the UE is configured to perform
E-UTRA SRS carrier-based switching an additional delay can be expected
in FR1 if the UE is capable of per-FR gap, or an additional delay can be
expected in both FR1 and FR2 if the UE is not capable of per-FR gap.

A cell is detectable only if at least one SSBs measured from the Cell
being configured remains detectable during the time period
T~identify\_intra\_without\_index~ or T~identify\_intra\_with\_index~ as
defined in clause 9.2.5.1 or clause 9.2.6.2. If a cell which has been
detectable at least for the time period
T~identify\ intra\ without\ index~ or T~identify\ intra\ with\ index~
defined in clause 9.2.5.1 or clause 9.2.6.2 becomes undetectable for a
period ≤ 5 seconds and then the cell becomes detectable again with the
same spatial reception parameter and triggers an event, the event
triggered measurement reporting delay shall be less than
T~SSB\_measurement\_period\_intra~ provided the timing to that cell has
not changed more than ± 3200/$2^{µ}$ T~c~ while the measurement gap has
not been available and L3 filtering has not been used, where *µ* is the
SCS configuration as defined in clause 4.2 of TS 38.211 \[3\]. When L3
filtering is used, an additional delay can be expected. In EN-DC and
NE-DC operation, when the UE is configured to perform E-UTRA SRS
carrier-based switching an additional delay can be expected in FR1 if
the UE is capable of per-FR gap, or an additional delay can be expected
in both FR1 and FR2 if the UE is not capable of per-FR gap.

### 9.2.5 Intrafrequency measurements without measurement gaps

#### 9.2.5.1 Intrafrequency cell identification

The UE shall be able to identify a new detectable intra-frequency cell
within T~identify\_intra\_without\_index~ if the UE is not indicated to
report SSB based RRM measurement result with the associated SSB
index(*reportQuantityRsIndexes* or *maxNrofRSIndexesToReport* is not
configured), or the UE is indicated that the neighbour cell is
synchronous with the serving cell (*deriveSSB-IndexFromCell* is
enabled). Otherwise UE shall be able to identify a new detectable intra
frequency cell within T~identify\_intra\_with\_index~. The UE shall be
able to identify a new detectable intra frequency SS block of an already
detected cell within T~identify\_intra\_without\_index.~ It is assumed
that *deriveSSB-IndexFromCell* is always enabled for FR1 TDD and FR2.

T~identify\_intra\_without\_index~ = (T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_intra~ + T
~SSB\_measurement\_period\_intra~) ms

T~identify\_intra\_with\_index~ = (T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_intra~ + T
~SSB\_measurement\_period\_intra~ + T~SSB\_time\_index\_intra~) ms

Where:

T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_intra~: it is the time period used in PSS/SSS detection
given in table 9.2.5.1-1, 9.2.5.1-2, 9.2.5.1-4 (deactivated SCell) or
9.2.5.1-5 (deactivated SCell)

T~SSB\_time\_index\_intra~: it is the time period used to acquire the
index of the SSB being measured given in table 9.2.5.1-3 or 9.2.5.1-6
(deactivated SCell)

T ~SSB\_measurement\_period\_intra~: equal to a measurement period of
SSB based measurement given in table 9.2.5.2-1, table 9.2.5.2-2 table
9.2.5.2-3 (deactivated SCell) or 9.2.5.2-4(deactivated SCell)

CSSF~intra~: it is a carrier specific scaling factor and is determined

according to CSSF~outside\_gap,i~ in clause 9.1.5.1 for measurement
conducted outside measurement gaps, i.e. when intra-frequency SMTC is
fully non overlapping or partially overlapping with measurement gaps, or
according to CSSF~within\_gap,i~ in clause 9.1.5.2 for measurement
conducted within measurement gaps, i.e. when intra-frequency SMTC is
fully overlapping with measurement gaps.

if the high layer in TS 38.331 \[2\] signalling of *smtc2* is
configured, the assumed periodicity of intra-frequency SMTC occasions
corresponds to the value of higher layer parameter *smtc2*; Otherwise
the assumed periodicity of intra-frequency SMTC occasions corresponds to
the value of higher layer parameter *smtc1*.

M~pss/sss\_sync\_w/o\_gaps~ : For a UE supporting FR2 power class 1,
M~pss/sss\_sync\_w/o\_gaps~ =40. For a UE supporting power class 2,
M~pss/sss\_sync\_w/o\_gaps~ =24. For a UE supporting FR2 power class 3,
M~pss/sss\_sync\_w/o\_gaps~ =24. For a UE supporting FR2 power class 4,
M~pss/sss\_sync\_w/o\_gaps~ =24

M~meas\_period\_w/o\_gaps~ : For a UE supporting power class 1,
M~meas\_period\_w/o\_gaps~ =40. For a UE supporting FR2 power class 2,
M~meas\_period\_w/o\_gaps~ =24. For a UE supporting power class 3,
M~meas\_period\_w/o\_gaps~ =24. For a UE supporting power class 4,
M~meas\_period\_w/o\_gaps~ =24.

When intra-frequency SMTC is fully non overlapping with measurement gaps
or intra-frequency SMTC is fully overlapping with MGs, Kp=1

When intra-frequency SMTC is partially overlapping with measurement
gaps, Kp = 1/(1- (SMTC period /MGRP)), where SMTC period \< MGRP. For
calculation of Kp, if the high layer signalling (TS 38.331 \[2\]) of
*smtc2* is configured, for cells indicated in the *pci-List* parameter
in *smtc2*, the SMTC periodicity corresponds to the value of higher
layer parameter *smtc2*; for the other cells, the SMTC periodicity
corresponds to the value of higher layer parameter *smtc1.*

If the higher layer signaling in TS38.331 \[2\] signalling of *smtc2* is
present and smtc1 is fully overlapping with measurement gaps and smtc2
is partially overlapping with measurement gaps, requirements are not
specified for T~identify\_intra\_without\_index~ or
T~identify\_intra\_with\_index~

For FR2,

K~layer1\_measurement~=1,

\- if all of the reference signals configured for RLM, BFD, CBD or
L1-RSRP for beam reporting on any FR2 serving frequency in the same band
outside measurement gap are not fully overlapped by intra-frequency SMTC
occasions, or

\- if all of the reference signal configured for RLM, BFD, CBD or
L1-RSRP for beam reporting on any FR2 serving frequency in the same band
outside measurement gap and fully-overlapped by intra-frequency SMTC
occasions are not overlapped with any of the SSB symbols and the RSSI
symbols, and 1 symbol before each consecutive SSB symbols and the RSSI
symbols, and 1 symbol after each consecutive SSB symbols and the RSSI
symbols, given that *SSB-ToMeasure* and *SS-RSSI-Measurement* are
configured, where SSB symbols are indicated by the union set
of *SSB-ToMeasure* from all the configured measurement objects on the
same serving carrier which can be merged. and RSSI symbols are indicated
by *SS-RSSI-Measurement*;

K~layer1\_measurement~=1.5, otherwise.

If the above-mentioned reference signal configured for L1-RSRP
measurement is aperiodic CSI-RS resource, longer cell identification
delay would be expected.

If MCG DRX is in use, cell identification requirements for
intra-frequency measurement in MCG specified in Table 9.2.5.1-1,
Table 9.2.5.1-2, Table 9.2.5.1-3, Table 9.2.5.1-4, Table 9.2.5.1-5 and
Table 9.2.5.1-6 shall depend on the MCG DRX cycle. If SCG DRX is in use,
cell identification requirements for intra-frequency measurement in SCG
specified in Table 9.2.5.1-1, Table 9.2.5.1-2, Table 9.2.5.1-3, Table
9.2.5.1-4, Table 9.2.5.1-5 and Table 9.2.5.1-6 shall depend on the SCG
DRX cycle. Otherwise, the requirements for when DRX is not in use shall
apply.

Table 9.2.5.1-1: Time period for PSS/SSS detection, (Frequency range
FR1)

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle                        | T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_intra~          |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | max( 600ms, ceil( 5 x K~p~) x    |
|                                  | SMTC period )^Note\ 1^ x         |
|                                  | CSSF~intra~                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle≤ 320ms                 | max( 600ms, ceil(M2 ^Note\ 2^x 5 |
|                                  | x K~p~) x max(SMTC period,DRX    |
|                                  | cycle)) x CSSF~intra~            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle\>320ms                 | ceil(5 x K~p~) x DRX cycle x     |
|                                  | CSSF~intra~                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: If different SMTC        |                                  |
| periodicities are configured for |                                  |
| different cells, the SMTC period |                                  |
| in the requirement is the one    |                                  |
| used by the cell being           |                                  |
| identified                       |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: When                     |                                  |
| *highSpeedMeasFlag-r16* is not   |                                  |
| configured, M2 = 1.5; When       |                                  |
| *highSpeedMeasFlag-r16* is       |                                  |
| configured, M2 = 1.5 if SMTC     |                                  |
| periodicity \> 40 ms;,otherwise  |                                  |
| M2=1.                            |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 3: When                     |                                  |
| *highSpeedMeasFlag-r16* is       |                                  |
| configured, the requirements     |                                  |
| apply only to UE supporting      |                                  |
| either                           |                                  |
| *measurementEnhancement-r16* or  |                                  |
| *int                             |                                  |
| raNR-MeasurementEnhancement-r16* |                                  |
| on measurements of the primary   |                                  |
| component carrier and do not     |                                  |
| apply to measurements of a       |                                  |
| secondary component carrier with |                                  |
| active SCell.                    |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

Table 9.2.5.1-2: Time period for PSS/SSS detection, (Frequency range
FR2)

  DRX cycle                                                                                                                                                     T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_intra~
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  No DRX                                                                                                                                                        max(600ms, ceil(M~pss/sss\_sync\_w/o\_gaps~ x K~p~ x K~layer1\_measurement~) x SMTC period)^Note\ 1^ x CSSF~intra~
  DRX cycle≤ 320ms                                                                                                                                              max(600ms, ceil(1.5 x M~pss/sss\_sync\_w/o\_gaps~ x K~p~ x K~layer1\_measurement~) x max(SMTC period,DRX cycle)) x CSSF~intra~
  DRX cycle\>320ms                                                                                                                                              ceil(M~pss/sss\_sync\_w/o\_gaps~ x K~p~ x K~layer1\_measurement~) x DRX cycle x CSSF~intra~
  NOTE 1: If different SMTC periodicities are configured for different cells, the SMTC period in the requirement is the one used by the cell being identified   

**Table 9.2.5.1-3: Time period for time index detection (FR1)**

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle                        | T~SSB\_time\_index\_intra~       |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | max(120ms, ceil( 3 x K~p~ ) x    |
|                                  | SMTC period)^Note\ 1^ x          |
|                                  | CSSF~intra~                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle≤ 320ms                 | max(120ms, ceil (M2 ^Note\ 2^ x  |
|                                  | 3 x K~p~) x max(SMTC period,DRX  |
|                                  | cycle)) x CSSF~intra~            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle\>320ms                 | Ceil(3 x K~p~) x DRX cycle x     |
|                                  | CSSF~intra~                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: If different SMTC        |                                  |
| periodicities are configured for |                                  |
| different cells, the SMTC period |                                  |
| in the requirement is the one    |                                  |
| used by the cell being           |                                  |
| identified                       |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: When                     |                                  |
| *highSpeedMeasFlag-r16* is not   |                                  |
| configured, M2 = 1.5; When       |                                  |
| *highSpeedMeasFlag-r16* is       |                                  |
| configured, M2 = 1.5 if SMTC     |                                  |
| periodicity \> 40 ms;,otherwise  |                                  |
| M2=1                             |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 3: When                     |                                  |
| *highSpeedMeasFlag-r16* is       |                                  |
| configured, the requirements     |                                  |
| apply only to UE supporting      |                                  |
| either                           |                                  |
| *measurementEnhancement-r16* or  |                                  |
| *int                             |                                  |
| raNR-MeasurementEnhancement-r16* |                                  |
| on measurements of the primary   |                                  |
| component carrier and do not     |                                  |
| apply to measurements of a       |                                  |
| secondary component carrier with |                                  |
| active SCell                     |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

**Table 9.2.5.1-4: Time period for PSS/SSS detection, deactivated SCell
(FR1)**

  DRX cycle           T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_intra~
  ------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------
  No DRX              Ceil(5 x K~p~) x measCycleSCell x CSSF~intra~
  DRX cycle≤ 320ms    Ceil(5 x K~p~) x max(measCycleSCell, 1.5xDRX cycle) x CSSF~intra~
  DRX cycle\> 320ms   Ceil(5 x K~p~) x max(measCycleSCell, DRX cycle) x CSSF~intra~

**Table 9.2.5.1-5: Time period for PSS/SSS detection, deactivated SCell
(FR2)**

  DRX cycle           T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_intra~
  ------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  No DRX              Ceil(M~pss/sss\_sync\_w/o\_gaps~ x K~p~) x measCycleSCell x CSSF~intra~
  DRX cycle≤ 320ms    Ceil(M~pss/sss\_sync\_w/o\_gaps~ x K~p~) x max(measCycleSCell, 1.5xDRX cycle) x CSSF~intra~
  DRX cycle\> 320ms   Ceil(M~pss/sss\_sync\_w/o\_gaps~ x K~p~) x max(measCycleSCell, DRX cycle) x CSSF~intra~

**Table 9.2.5.1-6: Time period for time index detection, deactivated
SCell (FR1)**

  DRX cycle           T~SSB\_time\_index\_intra~
  ------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------
  No DRX              Ceil(3 x K~p~) x measCycleSCell x CSSF~intra~
  DRX cycle≤ 320ms    Ceil(3 x K~p~) x max(measCycleSCell, 1.5xDRX cycle) x CSSF~intra~
  DRX cycle\> 320ms   Ceil(3 x K~p~)x max(measCycleSCell, DRX cycle) x CSSF~intra~

Table 9.2.5.1-7: Void

Table 9.2.5.1-8: Void

#### 9.2.5.2 Measurement period

The measurement period for intra-frequency measurements without gaps is
as shown in table 9.2.5.2-1, 9.2.5.2-2, 9.2.5.2-3 (deactivated SCell) or
9.2.5.2-4(deactivated SCell). When *highSpeedMeasFlag-r16* is
configured, T ~SSB\_measurement\_period\_intra~ is specified in Table
9.2.5.2-5.

If the higher layer signaling in TS38.331 \[2\] signalling of *smtc2* is
present and smtc1 is fully overlapping with measurement gaps and smtc2
is partially overlapping with measurement gaps, requirements are not
specified for T~SSB\_measurement\_period\_intra~

If MCG DRX is in use, measurement period requirements for
intra-frequency measurement in MCG specified in Table 9.2.5.2-1, Table
9.2.5.2-2, Table 9.2.5.2-3 and Table 9.2.5.2-4 shall depend on the MCG
DRX cycle. If SCG DRX is in use, measurement period requirements for
intra-frequency measurement in SCG specified in Table 9.2.5.2-1, Table
9.2.5.2-2, Table 9.2.5.2-3 and Table 9.2.5.2-4 shall depend on the SCG
DRX cycle. Otherwise, the requirements for when DRX is not in use shall
apply.

For FR2, a longer measurement period is allowed, if aperiodic CSI-RS
resource is measured for L1-RSRP measurement on any FR2 serving
frequency in the same band, and the CSI-RS resource is outside
measurement gap and overlapped with any of the SSB symbols and the RSSI
symbols, and 1 symbol before each consecutive SSB symbols and the RSSI
symbols, and 1 symbol after each consecutive SSB symbols and the RSSI
symbols. If *SSB-ToMeasure* or *SS-RSSI-Measurement* is configured, the
SSB symbols are indicated by the union set of *SSB-ToMeasure* from all
the configured measurement objects on the same band which can be merged
and the RSSI symbols are indicated by *SS-RSSI-Measurement*.

Table 9.2.5.2-1: Measurement period for intra-frequency measurements
without gaps (FR1)

  DRX cycle                                                                                                                                                     T ~SSB\_measurement\_period\_intra~
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  No DRX                                                                                                                                                        max(200ms, ceil( 5 x K~p~) x SMTC period)^Note\ 1^ x CSSF~intra~
  DRX cycle≤ 320ms                                                                                                                                              max(200ms, ceil(1.5x 5 x K~p~) x max(SMTC period,DRX cycle)) x CSSF~intra~
  DRX cycle\>320ms                                                                                                                                              ceil( 5 x K~p~ ) x DRX cycle x CSSF~intra~
  NOTE 1: If different SMTC periodicities are configured for different cells, the SMTC period in the requirement is the one used by the cell being identified   

Table 9.2.5.2-2: Measurement period for intra-frequency measurements
without gaps(FR2)

  DRX cycle                                                                                                                                                     T ~SSB\_measurement\_period\_intra~
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  No DRX                                                                                                                                                        max(400ms, ceil(M~meas\_period\_w/o\_gaps~ x K~p~ x K~layer1\_measurement~) x SMTC period)^Note\ 1^ x CSSF~intra~
  DRX cycle≤ 320ms                                                                                                                                              max(400ms, ceil(1.5x M~meas\_period\_w/o\_gaps~ x K~p~ x K~layer1\_measurement~) x max(SMTC period,DRX cycle)) x CSSF~intra~
  DRX cycle\>320ms                                                                                                                                              ceil(M~meas\_period\_w/o\_gaps~ xK~p~ x K~layer1\_measurement~ ) x DRX cycle x CSSF~intra~
  NOTE 1: If different SMTC periodicities are configured for different cells, the SMTC period in the requirement is the one used by the cell being identified   

Table 9.2.5.2-3: Measurement period for intra-frequency measurements
without gaps (deactivated SCell) (FR1)

  DRX cycle           T ~SSB\_measurement\_period\_intra~
  ------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------
  No DRX              Ceil(5 x K~p~) x measCycleSCell x CSSF~intra~
  DRX cycle≤ 320ms    Ceil(5 x K~p~) x max(measCycleSCell, 1.5xDRX cycle) x CSSF~intra~
  DRX cycle\> 320ms   Ceil(5 x K~p~)x max(measCycleSCell, DRX cycle) x CSSF~intra~

**Table 9.2.5.2-4: Measurement period for intra-frequency measurements
without gaps (deactivated SCell) (FR2)**

  DRX cycle           T ~SSB\_measurement\_period\_intra~
  ------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  No DRX              Ceil(M~meas\_period\_w/o\_gaps~ x K~p~) x measCycleSCell x CSSF~intra~
  DRX cycle≤ 320ms    Ceil(M~meas\_period\_w/o\_gaps~ x K~p~) x max(measCycleSCell, 1.5xDRX cycle) x CSSF~intra~
  DRX cycle\> 320ms   Ceil(M~meas\_period\_w/o\_gaps~ x K~p~) x max(measCycleSCell, DRX cycle) x CSSF~intra~

Table 9.2.5.2-5: T ~SSB\_measurement\_period\_intra~ When
*highSpeedMeasFlag-r16* is configured (Frequency range FR1

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle                        | T                                |
|                                  | ~                                |
|                                  | SSB\_measurement\_period\_intra~ |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX ^Note\ 2^                 | max(200ms, ceil( 5 x K~p~) x     |
|                                  | SMTC period)^Note\ 1^ x          |
|                                  | CSSF~intra~                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle≤ 160ms                 | max(200ms, ceil(5 x M2 ^Note\ 2^ |
|                                  | x K~p~) x max(SMTC period,DRX    |
|                                  | cycle)) x CSSF~intra~            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 160ms \< DRX cycle≤ 320ms        | ceil(4 x M2 ^Note\ 2^ x K~p~) x  |
|                                  | DRX cycle x CSSF~intra~          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle\>320ms                 | ceil( Y ^Note\ 3^ x K~p~ ) x DRX |
|                                  | cycle x CSSF~intra~              |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: If different SMTC        |                                  |
| periodicities are configured for |                                  |
| different cells, the SMTC period |                                  |
| in the requirement is the one    |                                  |
| used by the cell being           |                                  |
| identified                       |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: M2 = 1.5 if SMTC period  |                                  |
| \> 40 ms, otherwise M2=1         |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 3: Y=3 when SMTC period \<= |                                  |
| 40ms, Y=5 when SMTC period \>    |                                  |
| 40ms                             |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 4: When                     |                                  |
| *highSpeedMeasFlag-r16* is       |                                  |
| configured, the requirements     |                                  |
| apply only to UE supporting      |                                  |
| either                           |                                  |
| *measurementEnhancement-r16* or  |                                  |
| *int                             |                                  |
| raNR-MeasurementEnhancement-r16* |                                  |
| on measurements of the primary   |                                  |
| component carrier and do not     |                                  |
| apply to measurements of a       |                                  |
| secondary component carrier with |                                  |
| active SCell.                    |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

#### 9.2.5.3 Scheduling availability of UE during intra-frequency measurements

UE shall be capable of measuring without measurement gaps when the SSB
is completely contained in the active bandwidth part of the UE. When any
of the conditions in the following clauses is met, there are
restrictions on the scheduling availability; otherwise, there is no
scheduling restriction. Note that the SSB symbols indicated by the union
set of *SSB-ToMeasure* from all the configured measurement objects on
the same serving carrier which can be merged \[2\], if it is configured;
otherwise, all *L* SSB symbols within the SMTC window duration defined
in clause 4.1 of TS 38.213 \[3\] are included.

##### 9.2.5.3.1 Scheduling availability of UE performing measurements in TDD bands on FR1

When the UE performs intra-frequency measurements in a TDD band, the
following restrictions apply due to SS-RSRP or SS-SINR measurement

\- The UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS on SSB symbols to
be measured, and on 1 data symbol before each consecutive SSB symbols to
be measured and 1 data symbol after each consecutive SSB symbols to be
measured within SMTC window duration. If the high layer in TS 38.331
\[2\] signalling of *smtc2* is configured, the SMTC periodicity follows
*smtc2*; Otherwise SMTC periodicity follows *smtc1.*

When the UE performs intra-frequency measurements in a TDD band, the
following restrictions apply due to SS-RSRQ measurement

\- The UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS on SSB symbols to
be measured, RSSI measurement symbols, and on 1 data symbol before each
consecutive SSB to be measured/RSSI symbols and 1 data symbol after each
consecutive SSB to be measured/RSSI symbols within SMTC window duration.
If the high layer signalling of *smtc2* is configured in TS 38.331
\[2\], the SMTC periodicity follows *smtc2*; Otherwise the SMTC
periodicity follows *smtc1.*

When TDD intra-band carrier aggregation is performed, the scheduling
restrictions due to a given serving cell should also apply to all other
serving cells in the same band on the symbols that fully or partially
overlap with the aforementioned restricted symbols.

When TDD inter-band carrier aggregation is performed, the scheduling
restrictions due to a given serving cell should also apply to another
serving cell in a different band on the symbols that fully or partially
overlap with the aforementioned restricted symbols, if UE does not have
the capability of supporting *simultaneousRxTxInterBandCA* for this band
pair.

##### 9.2.5.3.2 Scheduling availability of UE performing measurements with a different subcarrier spacing than PDSCH/PDCCH on FR1

For UE which do not support *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology*
\[14\] the following restrictions apply due to SS-RSRP/RSRQ/SINR
measurement

\- If *deriveSSB\_IndexFromCell* is enabled the UE is not expected to
transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS or receive PDCCH/PDSCH/TRS/CSI-RS for CQI on
SSB symbols to be measured, and on 1 data symbol before each consecutive
SSB symbols to be measured and 1 data symbol after each consecutive SSB
symbols to be measured within SMTC window duration. If the high layer
signalling of *smtc2* is configured(in TS 38.331 \[2\]), the SMTC
periodicity follows *smtc2*; Otherwise the SMTC periodicity follows
*smtc1.*

\- If *deriveSSB\_IndexFromCell* is not enabled the UE is not expected
to transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS or receive PDCCH/PDSCH/TRS/CSI-RS for CQI on
all symbols within SMTC window duration. If the high layer signalling of
*smtc2* is configured in TS 38.331 \[2\], the SMTC periodicity follows
*smtc2*; Otherwise the SMTC periodicity follows *smtc1.*

> If the following conditions are met:
>
> \- The UE has been notified about system information update through
> paging,
>
> \- The gap between the UE's reception of PDCCH that UE monitors in the
> Type 2-PDCCH CSS set that notifies system information update, and the
> PDCCH that UE monitors in the Type0-PDCCH CSS set, is greater than 2
> slots
>
> The UE is expected to receive the PDCCH that the UE monitors in the
> Type0-PDCCH CSS set, and/or the corresponding PDSCH, on SSB symbols to
> be measured.

When intra-band carrier aggregation is performed, the scheduling
restrictions due to a given serving cell should also apply to all other
serving cells in the same band on the symbols that fully or partially
overlap with the aforementioned restricted symbols.

##### 9.2.5.3.3 Scheduling availability of UE performing measurements on FR2

The following scheduling restriction applies due to SS-RSRP or SS-SINR
measurement on an FR2 intra-frequency cell

The UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS or receive
PDCCH/PDSCH/TRS/CSI-RS for CQI on SSB symbols to be measured, and on 1
data symbol before each consecutive SSB symbols to be measured and 1
data symbol after each consecutive SSB symbols to be measured within
SMTC window duration (The signaling *deriveSSB\_IndexFromCell* is always
enabled for FR2). If the high layer signalling of *smtc2* is configured
in TS 38.331 \[2\], the SMTC periodicity follows *smtc2*; Otherwise the
SMTC periodicity follows *smtc1.*

The following scheduling restriction applies to SS-RSRQ measurement on
an FR2 intra-frequency cell

\- The UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS or receive
PDCCH/PDSCH/TRS/CSI-RS for CQI on SSB symbols to be measured, RSSI
measurement symbols, and on 1 data symbol before each consecutive SSB to
be measured/RSSI symbols and 1 data symbol after each consecutive SSB to
be measured/RSSI symbols within SMTC window duration (The signaling
*deriveSSB\_IndexFromCellc* is always enabled for FR2). If the high
layer signalling of *smtc2* is configured in TS 38.331 \[2\], the SMTC
periodicity follows *smtc2*; Otherwise the SMTC periodicity follows
*smtc1.*

When intra-band carrier aggregation in FR2 is performed, the scheduling
restrictions due to a given serving cell should also apply to all other
serving cells in the same band on the symbols that fully or partially
overlap with aforementioned restricted symbols.

When inter-band carrier aggregation in FR2 is performed, there are no
scheduling restrictions on FR2 serving cells in the bands due to
SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ or SS-SINR measurement on an FR2 intra-frequency cell
in different bands, provided that UE is capable of independent beam
management on this FR2 band pair. Additionally, there is no scheduling
restriction if the UE is configured with different numerology between
SSB on one FR2 band and data on the other FR2 band provided the UE is
configured for IBM operation for the band pair.

Note: When inter-band carrier aggregation in FR2 is performed, the
scheduling restrictions as defined in clause 9.2.5.3.1 due to a given
serving cell should also apply to another serving cell in a different
FR2 band on the symbols that fully or partially overlap with the
aforementioned restricted symbols, if UE does not have the capability of
supporting *simultaneousRxTxInterBandCA* for this FR2 band pair.

If following conditions are met:

\- The UE has been notified about system information update through
paging,

\- The gap between the UE's reception of PDCCH that UE monitors in the
Type 2-PDCCH CSS set that notifies system information update, and the
PDCCH that UE monitors in the Type0-PDCCH CSS set, is greater than 2
slots

For the SSB and CORESET for RMSI scheduling multiplexing patterns 3, the
UE is expected to receive the PDCCH that the UE monitors in the
Type0-PDCCH CSS set, and the corresponding PDSCH, on SSB symbols to be
measured; and

For the SSB and CORESET for RMSI scheduling multiplexing patterns 2, the
UE is expected to receive PDSCH that corresponds to the PDCCH that the
UE monitors in the Type0-PDCCH CSS set, on SSB symbols to be measured.

##### 9.2.5.3.4 Scheduling availability of UE performing measurements on FR1 or FR2 in case of FR1-FR2 inter-band CA

There are no scheduling restrictions on FR1 serving cell(s) due to
measurements performed on FR2 serving cell frequency layer. However, the
scheduling restrictions as defined in clause 9.2.5.3.1 due to a given
serving cell in FR2 should also apply to another serving cell in an FR1
band on the symbols that fully or partially overlap with the
aforementioned restricted symbols, if UE does not have the capability of
supporting *simultaneousRxTxInterBandCA* for this FR1-FR2 band pair.

There are no scheduling restrictions on FR2 serving cell(s) due to
measurements performed on FR1 serving cell frequency layer. However, the
scheduling restrictions as defined in clause 9.2.5.3.1 due to a given
serving cell in FR1 should also apply to another serving cell in an FR2
band on the symbols that fully or partially overlap with the
aforementioned restricted symbols, if UE does not have the capability of
supporting *simultaneousRxTxInterBandCA* for this FR1-FR2 band pair.

#### 9.2.5.4 SFTD Measurements between PCell and PSCell

##### 9.2.5.4.1 Introduction

This clause contains SFTD measurement requirements for UE which supports
NR-DC and is configured with a PSCell in RRC\_CONNECTED state. The UE
shall perform SFTD measurement between PCell and PSCell, and report the
SFTD result with/without SS-RSRP after the network requests with
*reportType* for the associated *reportConfig* set to *reportSFTD*. The
overall delay includes RRC procedure delay defined in clause 12 in
TS 38.331 \[2\], and SFTD measurement reporting delay in clause
9.2.5.4.3..

##### 9.2.5.4.2 SFTD Measurement delay

When no DRX is used in either of PCell and PSCell, the physical layer
measurement period of the SFTD measurement shall be T~measure\_SFTD1~ =
max(200, 5 x SMTC period) ms, where the SMTC period refers to the
maximum between the configured SMTC period in PCell and PSCell.

When DRX is used in either of the PCell or the PSCell, or in both PCell
and PSCell, the physical layer measurement period (T~measure\_SFTD1~) of
the SFTD measurement shall be as specified in Table 9.2.5.4.2-1.

Table 9.2.5.4.2-1: SFTD measurement requirement when DRX is used

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle length (s) ^Note\ 3^   | T~measure\_SFTD1~ (s)            |
+==================================+==================================+
| ≤0.04                            | max(0.2, 5 x SMTC period)        |
|                                  | (Note2)                          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 0.04\<DRX cycle≤0.32             | 8 x max(DRX cycle, SMTC period)  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 0.32\<DRX cycle≤10.24            | 5 x DRX cycle                    |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Note 1: SMTC period in this      |                                  |
| table refers to the maximum      |                                  |
| between the configured SMTC      |                                  |
| period in PCell and PSCell.      |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Note 2: Number of DRX cycles     |                                  |
| depends upon the DRX cycle in    |                                  |
| use                              |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Note 3: DRX cycle length in this |                                  |
| table refers to the DRX cycle    |                                  |
| length configured for PCell or   |                                  |
| PSCell. When DRX is used in both |                                  |
| PCell and PSCell, DRX cycle      |                                  |
| length in this table refers to   |                                  |
| the longer of the DRX cycle      |                                  |
| lengths for PCell and PSCell.    |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

If PSCell is changed without changing carrier frequency of PSCell, while
the UE is performing SFTD measurements, the UE shall still meet SFTD
measurement and accuracy requirements for the new PSCell. In this case
the UE shall restart the SFTD measurement, and the total physical layer
measurement period shall not exceed T~measure\_SFTD2~ as defined by the
following expression:

T~measure\_SFTD2~ = (M+1)\*(T~measure\_SFTD1~) +
M\*T~PSCell\_change\_NRDC~

where:

M is the number of times the NR PSCell is changed over the measurement
period (T~measure\_SFTD2~), and

T~PSCell\_change\_NRDC~ is the time necessary to change the PSCell; it
can be up to 25ms.

If PCell is changed, or if PSCell is changed with different carrier
frequency from PSCell, the UE shall terminate SFTD measurements.

The measurement accuracy for the SFTD measurement when DRX is used as
well as when no DRX is used shall be as specified in the clause 10.1.21.

##### 9.2.5.4.3 SFTD Measurement Reporting Delay

*The SFTD measurement reporting delay is defined as the time between a
command that will trigger an SFTD measurement report and the point when
the UE starts to transmit the measurement report over the air
interface.* This requirement assumes that the measurement report is not
delayed by other RRC signalling on the DCCH. This measurement reporting
delay excludes a delay uncertainty resulted when inserting the
measurement report to the TTI of the uplink DCCH. The delay uncertainty
is: 2 x TTI~DCCH~. This measurement reporting delay excludes any delay
caused by no UL resources available for UE to send the measurement
report.

The SFTD measurement reporting delay shall be less than measurement
period defined in clause 9.2.5.4.2 plus the RRC procedure delay defined
in TS 38.331 \[2\].

### 9.2.6 Intra-frequency measurements with measurement gaps

#### 9.2.6.1 Void

#### 9.2.6.2 Intra-frequency cell identification

The UE shall be able to identify a new detectable intra frequency cell
within T~identify\_intra\_without\_index~ if UE is not indicated to
report SSB based RRM measurement result with the associated SSB index
(*reportQuantityRsIndexes* or *maxNrofRSIndexesToReport* is not
configured), or the UE has been indicated that the neighbour cell is
synchronous with the serving cell (*deriveSSB-IndexFromCell* is
enabled). Otherwise UE shall be able to identify a new detectable intra
frequency cell within T~identify\_intra\_with\_index.~ The UE shall be
able to identify a new detectable intra frequency SS block of an already
detected cell within T~identify\_intra\_without\_index.~ It is assumed
that *deriveSSB-IndexFromCell* is always enabled for FR1 TDD and FR2.

T~identify\_intra\_without\_index~ = T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_intra~ + T
~SSB\_measurement\_period\_intra~ ms

T~identify\_intra\_with\_index~ = T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_ntra~ + T
~SSB\_measurement\_period\_intra~ + T~SSB\_time\_index\_intra~ ms

Where:

T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_intra~: it is the time period used in PSS/SSS detection
given in table 9.2.6.2-1 or 9.2.6.2-2.

T~SSB\_time\_index\_intra~: it is the time period used to acquire the
index of the SSB being measured given in table 9.2.6.2-3.

T ~SSB\_measurement\_period\_intra~: equal to a measurement period of
SSB based measurement given in table 9.2.6.3-1 or 9.2.6.3-2.

CSSF~intra~: it is a carrier specific scaling factor and is determined
according to CSSF~within\_gap,i~ in clause 9.1.5.2 for measurement
conducted within measurement gaps.

M~pss/sss\_sync\_with\_gaps~ : For a UE supporting FR2 power class 1,
M~pss/sss\_sync\ with\_gaps~=40. For a UE supporting FR2 power class 2,
M~pss/sss\_sync\ with\_gaps~ =24. For a UE supporting FR2 power class 3,
M~pss/sss\_sync\ with\_gaps~ =24. For a UE supporting power class 4,
M~pss/sss\_sync\ with\_gaps~ =24

M~meas\_period\_\ with\_gaps~: For a UE supporting power class 1,
M~meas\_period\_\ with\_gaps~ =40. For a UE supporting power class 2,
M~meas\_period\_\ with\_gaps~ =24. For a UE supporting power class 3,
M~meas\_period\_\ with\_gaps~ =24. For a UE supporting power class 4,
M~meas\_period\ with\_gaps~ =24.

If the higher layer signaling in TS 38.331 \[2\] of *smtc2* is present
and smtc1 is fully overlapping with measurement gaps and smtc2 is
partially overlapping with measurement gaps, requirements are not
specified for T~identify\_intra\_without\_index~ or
T~identify\_intra\_with\_index.~

If MCG DRX is in use, cell identification requirements for
intra-frequency measurement in MCG specified in Table 9.2.6.2-1, Table
9.2.6.2-2, and Table 9.2.6.2-3 shall depend on the MCG DRX cycle. If SCG
DRX is in use, cell identification requirements for intra-frequency
measurement in SCG specified in Table 9.2.6.2-1, Table 9.2.6.2-2, and
Table 9.2.6.2-3 shall depend on the SCG DRX cycle. Otherwise, the
requirements for when DRX is not in use shall apply.

Table 9.2.6.2-1: Time period for PSS/SSS detection (FR1)

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle                        | T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_intra~          |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | max(600ms, 5 x max(MGRP, SMTC    |
|                                  | period)) x CSSF~intra~           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle≤ 320ms                 | max(600ms, ceil(M2^Note\ 1^x 5)  |
|                                  | x max(MGRP, SMTC period,DRX      |
|                                  | cycle)) x CSSF~intra~            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle\>320ms                 | 5 x max(MGRP, DRX cycle) x       |
|                                  | CSSF~intra~                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: When                     |                                  |
| *highSpeedMeasFlag-r16* is not   |                                  |
| configured, M2 = 1.5; When       |                                  |
| *highSpeedMeasFlag-r16* is       |                                  |
| configured, M2 = 1.5 if SMTC     |                                  |
| periodicity \> 40 ms, otherwise  |                                  |
| M2=1.                            |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: When                     |                                  |
| *highSpeedMeasFlag-r16* is       |                                  |
| configured, the requirements     |                                  |
| apply only to UE supporting      |                                  |
| either                           |                                  |
| *measurementEnhancement-r16* or  |                                  |
| *int                             |                                  |
| raNR-MeasurementEnhancement-r16* |                                  |
| on measurements of the primary   |                                  |
| component carrier and do not     |                                  |
| apply to measurements of a       |                                  |
| secondary component carrier with |                                  |
| active SCell.                    |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

**Table 9.2.6.2-2: Time period for PSS/SSS detection (FR2)**

  DRX cycle          T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_intra~
  ------------------ -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  No DRX             max(600ms, M~pss/sss\_sync\_with\_gaps~ x max(MGRP, SMTC period)) x CSSF~intra~
  DRX cycle≤ 320ms   max(600ms, ceil(1.5x M~pss/sss\_sync\_with\_gaps~) x max(MGRP, SMTC period, DRX cycle)) x CSSF~intra~
  DRX cycle\>320ms   M~pss/sss\_sync\_with\_gaps~ x max(MGRP, DRX cycle) x CSSF~intra~

Table 9.2.6.2-3: Time period for time index detection (Frequency range
FR1)

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle                        | T~SSB\_time\_index\_intra~       |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | max(120ms, 3 x max(MGRP, SMTC    |
|                                  | period)) x CSSF~intra~           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle≤ 320ms                 | max(120ms, ceil(M2^Note\ 1^x 3)  |
|                                  | x max(MGRP, SMTC period,DRX      |
|                                  | cycle) x CSSF~intra~)            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle\>320ms                 | 3 x max(MGRP, DRX cycle) x       |
|                                  | CSSF~intra~                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: When                     |                                  |
| *highSpeedMeasFlag-r16* is not   |                                  |
| configured, M2 = 1.5; When       |                                  |
| *highSpeedMeasFlag-r16* is       |                                  |
| configured, M2 = 1.5 if SMTC     |                                  |
| periodicity \> 40 ms, otherwise  |                                  |
| M2=1.                            |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: When                     |                                  |
| *highSpeedMeasFlag-r16* is       |                                  |
| configured, the requirements     |                                  |
| apply only to UE supporting      |                                  |
| either                           |                                  |
| *measurementEnhancement-r16* or  |                                  |
| *int                             |                                  |
| raNR-MeasurementEnhancement-r16* |                                  |
| on measurements of the primary   |                                  |
| component carrier and do not     |                                  |
| apply to measurements of a       |                                  |
| secondary component carrier with |                                  |
| active SCell.                    |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

Table 9.2.6.2-7: Void

Table 9.2.6.2-8: Void

#### 9.2.6.3 Intrafrequency Measurement Period

The measurement period for FR1 intrafrequency measurements with gaps is
as shown in table 9.2.6.3-1.

The measurement period for FR2 intrafrequency measurements with gaps is
as shown in table 9.2.6.3-2.

When *highSpeedMeasFlag-r16* is configured, T
~SSB\_measurement\_period\_intra~ is specified in Table 9.2.6.3-3.

If MCG DRX is in use, measurement period requirements for
intra-frequency measurement in MCG specified in Table 9.2.6.3-1 and
Table 9.2.6.3-2, shall depend on the MCG DRX cycle. If SCG DRX is in
use, measurement period requirements for intra-frequency measurement in
SCG specified in Table 9.2.6.3-1and Table 9.2.6.3-2, shall depend on the
SCG DRX cycle. Otherwise, the requirements for when DRX is not in use
shall apply.

For either an FR1 or FR2 serving cell, longer measurement period would
be expected during the period T~identify\_CGI~ when the UE is requested
to decode an NR CGI.

Table 9.2.6.3-1: Measurement period for intra-frequency measurements
with gaps(FR1)

  DRX cycle          T ~SSB\_measurement\_period\_intra~
  ------------------ ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  No DRX             max(200ms, 5 x max(MGRP, SMTC period)) x CSSF~intra~
  DRX cycle≤ 320ms   max(200ms, ceil(1.5x 5) x max(MGRP, SMTC period,DRX cycle)) x CSSF~intra~
  DRX cycle\>320ms   5 x max(MGRP, DRX cycle) x CSSF~intra~

Table 9.2.6.3-2: Measurement period for intra-frequency measurements
with gaps(FR2)

  DRX cycle          T ~SSB\_measurement\_period\_intra~
  ------------------ -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  No DRX             max(400ms, M~meas\_period\ with\_gaps~ x max(MGRP, SMTC period)) x CSSF~intra~
  DRX cycle≤ 320ms   max(400ms, ceil(1.5 x M~meas\_period\ with\_gaps~) x max(MGRP, SMTC period, DRX cycle)) ^Note\ 1^ x CSSF~intra~
  DRX cycle\>320ms   M~meas\_period\ with\_gaps~ x max(MGRP, DRX cycle) x CSSF~intra~

Table 9.2.6.3-3: Measurement period When *highSpeedMeasFlag-r16* is
configured (Frequency Range FR1)

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle                        | T                                |
|                                  | ~                                |
|                                  | SSB\_measurement\_period\_intra~ |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | max(200ms, 5 x max(MGRP, SMTC    |
|                                  | period)) ^Note\ 1^ x CSSF~intra~ |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle≤ 160ms                 | max(200ms, ceil(M2^Note\ 2^ x 5) |
|                                  | x max(MGRP, SMTC period,DRX      |
|                                  | cycle)) x CSSF~intra~            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 160ms \< DRX cycle≤ 320ms        | max(200ms, ceil(M2^Note\ 2^ x 4) |
|                                  | x max(MGRP, DRX cycle)) x        |
|                                  | CSSF~intra~                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle\>320ms                 | Y ^Note\ 3^ x max(MGRP, DRX      |
|                                  | cycle) x CSSF~intra~             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: If different SMTC        |                                  |
| periodicities are configured for |                                  |
| different cells, the SMTC period |                                  |
| in the requirement is the one    |                                  |
| used by the cell being           |                                  |
| identified                       |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: M2 = 1.5 if SMTC         |                                  |
| periodicity \> 40 ms, otherwise  |                                  |
| M2=1                             |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 3: Y=3 when SMTC \<= 40ms,  |                                  |
| Y=5 when SMTC \> 40ms            |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 4: When                     |                                  |
| *highSpeedMeasFlag-r16* is       |                                  |
| configured, the requirements     |                                  |
| apply only to UE supporting      |                                  |
| either                           |                                  |
| *measurementEnhancement-r16* or  |                                  |
| *int                             |                                  |
| raNR-MeasurementEnhancement-r16* |                                  |
| on measurements of the primary   |                                  |
| component carrier and do not     |                                  |
| apply to measurements of a       |                                  |
| secondary component carrier with |                                  |
| active SCell.                    |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

9.2A NR intra-frequency measurements with CCA
---------------------------------------------

### 9.2A.1 Introduction

The requirements in clause 9.2.A apply for intra-frequency measurements
on carrier frequency with CCA.

A measurement is defined as a SSB based intra-frequency measurement
provided the centre frequency of the SSB of the serving cell indicated
for measurement and the centre frequency of the SSB of the neighbour
cell are the same, and the subcarrier spacing of the two SSBs are also
the same.

The UE shall be able to identify new intra-frequency cells and perform
SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ, and SS-SINR measurements of identified intra-frequency
cells if carrier frequency information is provided by PCell or the
PSCell, even if no explicit neighbour list with physical layer cell
identities is provided.

The UE can perform intra-frequency SSB based measurements without
measurement gaps if

\- the SSB is completely contained in the active BWP of the UE, or

\- the active downlink BWP is initial BWP\[3\].

For intra-frequency SSB based measurements without measurement gaps, UE
may cause scheduling restriction as specified in clause 9.2A.5.3.

SSB based measurements are configured along with one or two measurement
timing configuration(s) (SMTC(s)) which provides periodicity, duration
and offset information on a window of up to 5ms where the measurements
are to be performed. For intra-frequency connected mode measurements, up
to two measurement window periodicities may be configured. A single
measurement window offset and measurement duration are configured per
intra-frequency measurement object.

When measurement gaps are needed, the UE is not expected to detect SSB
which start earlier than the gap starting time + switching time, nor
detect SSB which end later than the gap end -- switching time. Switching
time is 0.5ms.

In the requirements of clause 9.2A, the term SMTC occasion not available
at the UE refers to when the SMTC contains SSBs configured by gNB in a
cell on a carrier frequency subject to CCA, but *N* candidate SSB
positions for the same SSB index within the discovery burst transmission
window are not available at the UE due to DL CCA failures at gNB during
the corresponding period, where:

\- For the cell detection procedure: *N* is at least one candidate SSB
position (NOTE: the one candidate SSB position for the cell detection
shall not be impacted by the set of candidate SSB positions which are
already being measured by the UE within the current measurement period
of the on-going measurements), and

\- For other procedures in clause 9.2A: *N* are the first two successive
candidate SSB positions when two or more candidate SSB positions are
configured for this SSB index in one discovery burst transmission
window, otherwise N is one candidate SSB position;

otherwise the SMTC occasion is considered as available at the UE.

### 9.2A.2 Requirements applicability

The requirements in clause 9.2A apply, provided:

\- The cell being identified or measured is detectable.

An intra-frequency cell shall be considered detectable when for each
relevant SSB:

\- SS-RSRP related side conditions given in clause 10.1.27, for a
corresponding Band,

\- SS-RSRQ related side conditions given in clause 10.1.29, for a
corresponding Band,

\- SS-SINR related side conditions given in clause 10.1.31, for a
corresponding Band,

\- SSB\_RP and SSB Ês/Iot according to Annex B.2.8 for a corresponding
Band.

### 9.2A.3 Number of cells and number of SSB

For each intra-frequency layer, during each layer 1 measurement period,
the UE shall be capable of performing SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ, and SS-SINR
measurements for at least:

\- 8 identified cells, and

\- 14 SSBs with different SSB index and/or PCI on the intra-frequency
layer, where the number of SSBs in the serving cell (except for the
SCell) is not smaller than the number of configured RLM-RS SSB
resources.

### 9.2A.4 Measurement Reporting Requirements

9.2A.4.1 Periodic Reporting

Reported RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR measurements contained in periodically
triggered measurement reports shall meet the requirements in clauses
10.1.27, 20.1.29, and 10.1.31, respectively.

9.2A.4.2 Event-triggered Periodic Reporting

Reported RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR measurements contained in periodically
triggered measurement reports shall meet the requirements in clauses
10.1.27, 20.1.29, and 10.1.31, respectively.

The first report in event triggered periodic measurement reporting shall
meet the requirements specified in clause 9.2A.4.3.

9.2A.4.3 Event Triggered Reporting

Reported RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR measurements contained in periodically
triggered measurement reports shall meet the requirements in clauses
10.1.27, 20.1.29, and 10.1.31, respectively.

The UE shall not send any event triggered measurement reports as long as
no reporting criteria is fulfilled.

The measurement reporting delay is defined as the time between an event
that will trigger a measurement report and the point when the UE starts
to transmit the measurement report over the air interface. This
requirement assumes that the measurement report is not delayed by other
RRC signalling on the DCCH. This measurement reporting delay excludes a
delay uncertainty resulted when inserting the measurement report to the
TTI of the uplink DCCH. The delay uncertainty is: 2 x TTI~DCCH~. This
measurement reporting delay excludes a delay which caused by no UL
resources being available for UE to send the measurement report on, and
all delays due to UL CCA failures until the successful transmission of
the report.

The event triggered measurement reporting delay, measured without L3
filtering shall be less than T ~identify\ intra\ with\ index\_CCA~ or T
~identify\ intra\ without\ index\_CCA~ defined in clause 9.2A.5.1 or
clause 9.2A.6.2. When L3 filtering is used an additional delay can be
expected.

A cell is detectable only if at least one SSBs measured from the Cell
being configured remains detectable during the time period T
~identify\_intra\_without\_index\_CCA~ or T
~identify\_intra\_with\_index\_CCA~ as defined in clause 9.2A.5.1 or
clause 9.2A.6.2. If a cell which has been detectable at least for the
time period T ~identify\ intra\ without\ index\_CCA~ or T
~identify\ intra\ with\ index\_CCA~ defined in clause 9.2A.5.1 or clause
9.2A.6.2 becomes undetectable for a period≤ 8 seconds and then the cell
becomes detectable again with the same spatial reception parameter and
triggers an event, the event triggered measurement reporting delay shall
be less than T~SSB\_measurement\_period\_intra\_CCA~ provided the timing
to that cell has not changed more than ± 3200/$2^{µ}$ Tc while the
measurement gap has not been available and the L3 filter has not been
used, where *µ* is the SCS configuration as defined in clause 4.2 of TS
38.211 \[3\]. When L3 filtering is used, an additional delay can be
expected.

### 9.2A.5 Intra-frequency measurements without measurement gaps

9.2A.5.1 Intra-frequency cell identification

The UE shall be able to identify a new detectable intra frequency cell
within T~identify\_intra\_without\_index\_CCA~ if UE is not indicated to
report SSB based RRM measurement result with the associated SSB
index(*reportQuantityRsIndexes* or *maxNrofRSIndexesToReport* is not
configured), or the UE is indicated that the neighbour cell is
synchronous with the serving cell (*deriveSSB-IndexFromCell* is
enabled). Otherwise UE shall be able to identify a new detectable intra
frequency cell within T~identify\_intra\_with\_index\_CCA~. The UE shall
be able to identify a new detectable intra frequency SS block of an
already detected cell within T~identify\_intra\_without\_index\_CCA.~

T~identify\_intra\_without\_index\_CCA~ = (T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_intra\_CCA~
+ T ~SSB\_measurement\_period\_intra\_CCA~) ms

T~identify\_intra\_with\_index\ CCA~ = (T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_intra\_CCA~ + T
~SSB\_measurement\_period\_intra\_CCA~ +
T~SSB\_time\_index\_intra\_CCA~) ms

Where:

T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_intra\_CCA~: it is the time period used in PSS/SSS
detection given in table 9.2A.5.1-1, 9.2A.5.1-3 (deactivated Scell) .

T~SSB\_time\_index\_intra\_CCA~: it is the time period used to acquire
the index of the SSB being measured given in table 9.2A.5.1-2 or
9.2A.5.1-4 (deactivated SCell).

T ~SSB\_measurement\_period\_intra\_CCA~: equal to a measurement period
of SSB based measurement given in table 9.2A.5.2-1, 9.2A.5.2-2
(deactivated Scell). CSSF~intra~: it is a carrier specific scaling
factor and is determined

\- according to CSSF~outside\_gap,i~ in clause 9.1.5.1 for measurement
conducted outside measurement gaps, i.e. when intra-frequency SMTC is
fully non overlapping or partially overlapping with measurement gaps, or
according to CSSF~within\_gap,i~ in clause 9.1.5.2 for measurement
conducted within measurement gaps, i.e. when intra-frequency SMTC is
fully overlapping with measurement gaps.

When intra-frequency SMTC is fully non overlapping with measurement gaps
or intra-frequency SMTC is fully overlapping with MGs, Kp=1

When intra-frequency SMTC is partially overlapping with measurent gaps,
Kp = 1/(1- (SMTC period /MGRP)), where SMTC period \< MGRP.

If SCG DRX is in use, intra-frequency cell identification requirements
specified in Table 9.2A.5.1-1, Table 9.2A.5.1-2, Table 9.2A.5.1-3, and
Table 9.2A.5.1-4 shall depend on the SCG DRX cycle. Otherwise, the
requirements for when DRX is not in use shall apply.

The requirements apply provided any two closest SMTC occasions available
at the UE for the measurement shall be separated by no more than the
maximum time requirement for the cell to remain known defined in clause
9.2A.4.3.

Table 9.2A.5.1-1: Time period for PSS/SSS detection

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Condition                        | T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_intra\_CCA~     |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | max( 600ms, ceil((5+L~PSS/SSS~)  |
|                                  | x K~p~) x SMTC period)^Note\ 1^  |
|                                  | x CSSF~intra~                    |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle≤ 320ms                 | max( 600ms, ceil(1.5x            |
|                                  | (5+L~PSS/SSS~) x K~p~) x         |
|                                  | max(SMTC period,DRX cycle)) x    |
|                                  | CSSF~intra~                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle\>320ms                 | ceil((5+L~PSS/SSS~) x K~p~) x    |
|                                  | DRX cycle x CSSF~intra~          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: If different SMTC        |                                  |
| periodicities are configured for |                                  |
| different cells, the SMTC period |                                  |
| in the requirement is the one    |                                  |
| used by the cell being           |                                  |
| identified                       |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: When DRX is not          |                                  |
| configured, L~PSS/SSS~ is the    |                                  |
| number of SMTC occasions not     |                                  |
| available at the UE during       |                                  |
| T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_intra\_CCA~ for |                                  |
| PSS/SSS detection, where         |                                  |
| L~PSS/SSS~\< L~PSS/SSS,max~.     |                                  |
| When DRX is configured,          |                                  |
| L~PSS/SSS~ is the number of DRX  |                                  |
| cycles in which at least one     |                                  |
| SMTC occasion is not available   |                                  |
| at the UE during                 |                                  |
| T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_intra\_CCA~ for |                                  |
| PSS/SSS detection, where         |                                  |
| L~PSS/SSS~\< L~PSS/SSS,max~.     |                                  |
| When configured with DRX, the UE |                                  |
| is not required to determine the |                                  |
| availability of SMTC occasions   |                                  |
| more frequent than once per DRX  |                                  |
| cycle. FFS: The UE is not        |                                  |
| required to determine the        |                                  |
| availability of SMTC occasions   |                                  |
| more frequent than what is       |                                  |
| required by CSSF~intra~.         |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 3: L~PSS/SSS,max~ =7 for    |                                  |
| Max(DRX cycle,SMTC period)≤40ms  |                                  |
| where DRX cycle is 0 for         |                                  |
| non-DRX, L~PSS/SSS,max~ =5 for   |                                  |
| 40ms\<Max(DRX cycle,SMTC         |                                  |
| period)≤320ms, L~PSS/SSS,max~ =  |                                  |
| 3 for DRX cycle\>320ms.          |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 4: Upon exceeding           |                                  |
| L~PSS/SSS,max~, the UE is not    |                                  |
| required to meet the             |                                  |
| requirements for PSS/SSS         |                                  |
| detection.                       |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

Table 9.2A.5.1-2: Time period for time index detection

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Condition                        | T~SSB\_time\_index\_intra\_CCA~  |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | max(120ms, ceil((3+L~ind~) x     |
|                                  | K~p~ ) x SMTC period)^Note\ 1^ x |
|                                  | CSSF~intra~                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle≤ 320ms                 | max(120ms, ceil (1.5 x           |
|                                  | (3+L~ind~) x K~p~) x max(SMTC    |
|                                  | period,DRX cycle)) x CSSF~intra~ |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle\>320ms                 | Ceil((3+L~ind~) x K~p~) x DRX    |
|                                  | cycle x CSSF~intra~              |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: If different SMTC        |                                  |
| periodicities are configured for |                                  |
| different cells, the SMTC period |                                  |
| in the requirement is the one    |                                  |
| used by the cell being           |                                  |
| identified                       |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: When DRX is not          |                                  |
| configured, L~ind~ is the number |                                  |
| of SMTC occasions not available  |                                  |
| at the UE during                 |                                  |
| T~SSB\_time\_index\_intra\_CCA~  |                                  |
| for index detection, where       |                                  |
| L~ind~ ≤ L~ind,max~. When DRX is |                                  |
| configured, L~ind~ is the number |                                  |
| of DRX cycles in which at least  |                                  |
| one SMTC occasion is not         |                                  |
| available at the UE during       |                                  |
| T~SSB\_time\_index\_intra\_CCA~  |                                  |
| for index detection, where       |                                  |
| L~ind~ ≤ L~ind,max~. When        |                                  |
| configured with DRX, the UE is   |                                  |
| not required to determine the    |                                  |
| availability of SMTC occasions   |                                  |
| more frequent than once per DRX  |                                  |
| cycle. FFS: The UE is not        |                                  |
| required to determine the        |                                  |
| availability of SMTC occasions   |                                  |
| more frequent than what is       |                                  |
| required by CSSF~intra~.         |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 3: L~ind,max~ = 5 for       |                                  |
| Max(DRX cycle,SMTC period)≤40ms  |                                  |
| where DRX cycle is 0 for         |                                  |
| non-DRX, L~ind,max~ = 3 for      |                                  |
| 40ms\<Max(DRX cycle,SMTC         |                                  |
| period)≤320ms, L~ind,max~ =2 for |                                  |
| DRX cycle\>320ms.                |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 4: Upon exceeding           |                                  |
| L~ind,max~ over the period of    |                                  |
| time                             |                                  |
| T~SSB\_time\_index\_intra\_CCA~, |                                  |
| the UE has to restart the time   |                                  |
| index detection procedure.       |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

Table 9.2A.5.1-3: Time period for PSS/SSS detection, deactivated SCell

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Condition                        | T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_intra\_CCA~     |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | (5 + L~PSS/SSS,deact~) x         |
|                                  | measCycleSCell x CSSF~intra~     |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle≤ 320ms                 | (5 + L~PSS/SSS,\ deact~) x       |
|                                  | max(measCycleSCell, 1.5xDRX      |
|                                  | cycle) x CSSF~intra~             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle\>320ms                 | (5 + L~PSS/SSS,\ deact~) x       |
|                                  | max(measCycleSCell, DRX cycle) x |
|                                  | CSSF~intra~                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: When DRX is not          |                                  |
| configured, L~PSS/SSS,\ deact~   |                                  |
| is the number of SMTC occasions  |                                  |
| not available at the UE during   |                                  |
| T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_intra\_CCA~ for |                                  |
| PSS/SSS detection, where         |                                  |
| L~PSS/SSS,\ deact~\<             |                                  |
| L~PSS/SSS,\ deact,max.~ When DRX |                                  |
| is configured,                   |                                  |
| L~PSS/SSS,\ deact~ is the number |                                  |
| of DRX cycles in which at least  |                                  |
| one SMTC occasion is not         |                                  |
| available at the UE during       |                                  |
| T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_intra\_CCA~ for |                                  |
| PSS/SSS detection, where         |                                  |
| L~PSS/SSS,\ deact~\<             |                                  |
| L~PSS/SSS,\ deact,max.~ When     |                                  |
| configured with DRX, the UE is   |                                  |
| not required to determine the    |                                  |
| availability of SMTC occasions   |                                  |
| more frequent than once per DRX  |                                  |
| cycle. When configured with      |                                  |
| measurement cycles, the UE is    |                                  |
| not required to determine the    |                                  |
| availability of SMTC occasions   |                                  |
| more frequent than once per      |                                  |
| measurement cycle. FFS: The UE   |                                  |
| is not required to determine the |                                  |
| availability of SMTC occasions   |                                  |
| more frequent than what is       |                                  |
| required by CSSF~intra~.         |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: L~PSS/SSS,\ deact,max,~  |                                  |
| = 7 for Max(DRX cycle,           |                                  |
| measCycleSCell)≤40ms where DRX   |                                  |
| cycle is 0 for non-DRX,          |                                  |
| L~PSS/SSS,\ deact,max~ = 5 for   |                                  |
| 40ms\<Max(DRX cycle,             |                                  |
| measCycleSCell)≤320ms,           |                                  |
| L~PSS/SSS,\ deact,max~ = 3 for   |                                  |
| DRX cycle\>320ms.                |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 3: Upon exceeding           |                                  |
| L~PSS/SSS,\ deact,max,~, the UE  |                                  |
| is not required to meet the      |                                  |
| requirements for PSS/SSS         |                                  |
| detection.                       |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

Table 9.2A.5.1-4: Time period for time index detection, deactivated
SCell

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Condition                        | T~SSB\_time\_index\_intra\_CCA~  |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | (3+L~ind,deact~) x               |
|                                  | measCycleSCell x CSSF~intra~     |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle≤ 320ms                 | (3+L~ind,deact~) x               |
|                                  | max(measCycleSCell, 1.5xDRX      |
|                                  | cycle) x CSSF~intra~             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle\>320ms                 | (3+L~ind,deact~) x               |
|                                  | max(measCycleSCell, DRX cycle) x |
|                                  | CSSF~intra~                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: When DRX is not          |                                  |
| configured, L~ind,deact~ is the  |                                  |
| number of SMTC occasions not     |                                  |
| available at the UE during       |                                  |
| T~SSB\_time\_index\_intra\_CCA~  |                                  |
| for index detection, where       |                                  |
| L~ind,deact~ \<                  |                                  |
| L~ind,deact,max~. When DRX is    |                                  |
| configured, L~ind,deact~ is the  |                                  |
| number of DRX cycles in which at |                                  |
| least one SMTC occasion is not   |                                  |
| available at the UE during       |                                  |
| T~SSB\_time\_index\_intra\_CCA~  |                                  |
| for index detection, where       |                                  |
| L~ind,deact~ \<                  |                                  |
| L~ind,deact,max~. When           |                                  |
| configured with DRX, the UE is   |                                  |
| not required to determine the    |                                  |
| availability of SMTC occasions   |                                  |
| more frequent than once per DRX  |                                  |
| cycle. When configured with      |                                  |
| measurement cycles, the UE is    |                                  |
| not required to determine the    |                                  |
| availability of SMTC occasions   |                                  |
| more frequent than once per      |                                  |
| measurement cycle. FFS: The UE   |                                  |
| is not required to determine the |                                  |
| availability of SMTC occasions   |                                  |
| more frequent than what is       |                                  |
| required by CSSF~intra~.         |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: L~ind,deact,max,~ = 5    |                                  |
| for Max(DRX cycle,               |                                  |
| measCycleSCell)≤40ms where DRX   |                                  |
| cycle is 0 for non-DRX,          |                                  |
| L~ind,deact,max~ = 3 for         |                                  |
| 40ms\<Max(DRX cycle,             |                                  |
| measCycleSCell)≤320ms,           |                                  |
| L~ind,deact,max~ = 2 for DRX     |                                  |
| cycle\>320ms.                    |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 3: Upon exceeding           |                                  |
| L~ind,deact,max~ over the period |                                  |
| of time                          |                                  |
| T~SSB\_time\_index\_intra\_CCA~, |                                  |
| the UE has to restart the time   |                                  |
| index detection procedure.       |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

#### 9.2A.5.2 Measurement period

The measurement period for intra-frequency measurements without gaps is
as shown in table 9.2A.5.2-1, 9.2A.5.2-2 (deactivated SCell).

If SCG DRX is in use, intra-frequency measurement period requirements
specified in Table 9.2A.5.2-1, Table 9.2A.5.2-2 shall depend on the SCG
DRX cycle. Otherwise, the requirements for when DRX is not in use shall
apply.

The requirements apply provided any two closest SMTC occasions available
at the UE for the measurement shall be separated by no more than the
maximum time requirement for the cell to remain known defined in clause
9.2A.4.3.

When the time period of unsuccessful measurement attempts due to
exceeding the maximum number of unavailable at the UE SMTC occasions of
an already identified cell exceeds the maximum time requirement for the
cell to remain known defined in clause 9.2A.4.3, UE shall stop the
measurement attempts on this SSB and ***perform the detection procedure
again like for any other SSB***.

Table 9.2A.5.2-1: Measurement period for intra-frequency measurements
without gaps

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Condition                        | T                                |
|                                  | ~SSB\_                           |
|                                  | measurement\_period\_intra\_CCA~ |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | max(200ms, ceil((5+L~meas~) x    |
|                                  | K~p~) x SMTC period)^Note\ 1^ x  |
|                                  | CSSF~intra~                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle≤ 320ms                 | max(200ms, ceil(1.5x (5+L~meas~) |
|                                  | x K~p~) x max(SMTC period,DRX    |
|                                  | cycle)) x CSSF~intra~            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle\>320ms                 | ceil((5+L~meas~) x K~p~ ) x DRX  |
|                                  | cycle x CSSF~intra~              |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: If different SMTC        |                                  |
| periodicities are configured for |                                  |
| different cells, the SMTC period |                                  |
| in the requirement is the one    |                                  |
| used by the cell being           |                                  |
| identified                       |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: When DRX is not          |                                  |
| configured, L~meas~ is the       |                                  |
| number of SMTC occasions not     |                                  |
| available at the UE during T     |                                  |
| ~SSB\_                           |                                  |
| measurement\_period\_intra\_CCA~ |                                  |
| for measurement, where L~meas~   |                                  |
| \<L~meas,max~. When DRX is       |                                  |
| configured, L~meas~ is the       |                                  |
| number of DRX cycles in which at |                                  |
| least one SMTC occasion is not   |                                  |
| available at the UE during T     |                                  |
| ~SSB\_                           |                                  |
| measurement\_period\_intra\_CCA~ |                                  |
| for measurement, where L~meas~   |                                  |
| \<L~meas,max~. When configured   |                                  |
| with DRX, the UE is not required |                                  |
| to determine the availability of |                                  |
| SMTC occasions more frequent     |                                  |
| than once per DRX cycle. FFS:    |                                  |
| The UE is not required to        |                                  |
| determine the availability of    |                                  |
| SMTC occasions more frequent     |                                  |
| than what is required by         |                                  |
| CSSF~intra~.                     |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 3: L~meas,max~ = 7 for      |                                  |
| Max(DRX cycle,SMTC period)≤40ms  |                                  |
| where DRX cycle is 0 for         |                                  |
| non-DRX, L~meas,max~ = 5 for     |                                  |
| 40ms\<Max(DRX cycle,SMTC         |                                  |
| period)≤320ms, L~meas,max~ = 3   |                                  |
| for DRX cycle\>320ms.            |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 4: Upon exceeding           |                                  |
| L~meas,max~ over the period of   |                                  |
| time T                           |                                  |
| ~SSB\_m                          |                                  |
| easurement\_period\_intra\_CCA~, |                                  |
| the UE has to restart the        |                                  |
| measurement procedure.           |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

Table 9.2A.5.2-2: Measurement period for intra-frequency measurements
without gaps (deactivated SCell)

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Condition                        | T                                |
|                                  | ~SSB\_                           |
|                                  | measurement\_period\_intra\_CCA~ |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | (5+L~meas,deact~) x              |
|                                  | measCycleSCell x CSSF~intra~     |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle≤ 320ms                 | (5+L~meas,\ deact~) x            |
|                                  | max(measCycleSCell, 1.5xDRX      |
|                                  | cycle) x CSSF~intra~             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle\>320ms                 | (5+L~meas,\ deact~) x            |
|                                  | max(measCycleSCell, DRX cycle) x |
|                                  | CSSF~intra~                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: When DRX is not          |                                  |
| configured, L~meas,deact~ is the |                                  |
| number of SMTC occasions not     |                                  |
| available at the UE during T     |                                  |
| ~SSB\_                           |                                  |
| measurement\_period\_intra\_CCA~ |                                  |
| for measurement, where           |                                  |
| L~meas,deact~                    |                                  |
| \<L~meas,\ ,deact\ ,max~. When   |                                  |
| DRX is configured, L~meas,deact~ |                                  |
| is the number of DRX cycles in   |                                  |
| which at least one SMTC occasion |                                  |
| is not available at the UE       |                                  |
| during T                         |                                  |
| ~SSB\_                           |                                  |
| measurement\_period\_intra\_CCA~ |                                  |
| for measurement, where           |                                  |
| L~meas,deact~                    |                                  |
| \<L~meas,\ ,deact\ ,max~. When   |                                  |
| configured with DRX, the UE is   |                                  |
| not required to determine the    |                                  |
| availability of SMTC occasions   |                                  |
| more frequent than once per DRX  |                                  |
| cycle. When configured with      |                                  |
| measurement cycles, the UE is    |                                  |
| not required to determine the    |                                  |
| availability of SMTC occasions   |                                  |
| more frequent than once per      |                                  |
| measurement cycle. FFS: The UE   |                                  |
| is not required to determine the |                                  |
| availability of SMTC occasions   |                                  |
| more frequent than what is       |                                  |
| required by CSSF~intra~.         |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: L~meas,\ ,deact\ ,max,~  |                                  |
| = 7 for Max(DRX cycle,           |                                  |
| measCycleSCell)≤40ms where DRX   |                                  |
| cycle is 0 for non-DRX,          |                                  |
| L~meas,\ ,deact\ ,max~ = 5 for   |                                  |
| 40ms\<Max(DRX cycle,             |                                  |
| measCycleSCell)≤320ms,           |                                  |
| L~meas,\ ,deact\ ,max~ = 3 for   |                                  |
| DRX cycle\>320ms.                |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 3: Upon exceeding           |                                  |
| L~meas,deact,max~ over the       |                                  |
| period of time T                 |                                  |
| ~SSB\_m                          |                                  |
| easurement\_period\_intra\_CCA~, |                                  |
| the UE has to restart the        |                                  |
| measurement procedure.           |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

#### 9.2A.5.3 Scheduling availability of UE during intra-frequency measurements

UE shall be capable of measuring without measurement gaps when the SSB
is completely contained in the active bandwidth part of the UE. When any
of the conditions in the following clauses is met, there are
restrictions on the scheduling availability; otherwise, there is no
scheduling restriction. Note that the SSB symbols indicated by the union
set of *SSB-ToMeasure* from all the configured measurement objects on
the same serving carrier which can be merged \[2\], if it is configured;
otherwise, all *L* SSB symbols within SMTC window duration defined in
clause 4.1 of TS 38.213 \[3\] are included.

##### 9.2A.5.3.1 Scheduling availability of UE performing measurements in TDD bands

When UE performs intra-frequency measurements in a TDD band, the
following restrictions apply due to SS-RSRP or SS-SINR measurement

\- The UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS on SSB symbols
configured to be measured, and on 1 data symbol before each consecutive
SSB symbols configured to be measured and 1 data symbol after each
consecutive SSB symbols configured to be measured within SMTC window
duration if *deriveSSB\_IndexFromCell* is enabled. If the high layer in
TS 38.331\[2\] signaling of smtc2 is configured, the SMTC periodicity
follows smtc2; Otherwise SMTC periodicity follows smtc1.

\- The UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS on all symbols
within SMTC window duration if *deriveSSB\_IndexFromCell* is not
enabled. If the high layer in TS 38.331 \[2\] signaling of smtc2 is
configured, the SMTC periodicity follows smtc2; Otherwise SMTC
periodicity follows smtc1.

When the UE performs intra-frequency measurements in a TDD band, the
following restrictions apply due to SS-RSRQ measurement

\- The UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS on SSB symbols
configured to be measured, RSSI measurement symbols, and on 1 data
symbol before each consecutive SSB configured to be measured/RSSI
symbols and 1 data symbol after each consecutive SSB configured to be
measured/RSSI symbols within SMTC window duration if
*deriveSSB\_IndexFromCell* is enabled. If the high layer signaling of
smtc2 is configured (in TS 38.331), the SMTC periodicity follows smtc2;
Otherwise the SMTC periodicity follows smtc1.

\- The UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS on all symbols
within SMTC window duration if *deriveSSB\_IndexFromCell* is not
enabled. If the high layer in TS 38.331 signaling of smtc2 is
configured, the SMTC periodicity follows smtc2; Otherwise SMTC
periodicity follows smtc1.

When intra-band carrier aggregation in unlicensed spectrum is performed,
the scheduling restrictions due to a given serving cell should also
apply to all other serving cells in the same band on the symbols that
fully or partially overlap with the aforementioned restricted symbols.

##### 9.2A.5.3.2 Scheduling availability of UE performing measurements with a different subcarrier spacing than PDSCH/PDCCH

For UE which do not support *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology*
\[14\] the following restrictions apply due to SS-RSRP/RSRQ/SINR
measurement

\- If *deriveSSB\_IndexFromCell* is enabled the UE is not expected to
transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS or receive PDCCH/PDSCH/TRS/CSI-RS for CQI on
SSB symbols to be measured, and on 1 data symbol before each consecutive
SSB symbols to be measured and 1 data symbol after each consecutive SSB
symbols to be measured within SMTC window duration.

\- If *deriveSSB\_IndexFromCell* is not enabled the UE is not expected
to transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS or receive PDCCH/PDSCH/TRS/CSI-RS for CQI on
all symbols within SMTC window duration.

When intra-band carrier aggregation is performed, the scheduling
restrictions due to a given serving cell should also apply to all other
serving cells in the same band on the symbols that fully or partially
overlap with aforementioned restricted symbols.

### 9.2A.6 Intra-frequency measurements with measurement gaps

#### 9.2A.6.1 Intra-frequency cell identification

The UE shall be able to identify a new detectable intra frequency cell
within T~identify\_intra\_without\_index\_CCA~ if UE is not indicated to
report SSB based RRM measurement result with the associated SSB index
(*reportQuantityRsIndexes* or *maxNrofRSIndexesToReport* is not
configured), or the UE has been indicated that the neighbour cell is
synchronous with the serving cell (*deriveSSB-IndexFromCell* is
enabled). Otherwise UE shall be able to identify a new detectable intra
frequency cell within T~identify\_intra\_with\_index\_CCA.~ The UE shall
be able to identify a new detectable intra frequency SS block of an
already detected cell within T~identify\_intra\_without\_index\ CCA.~

T~identify\_intra\_without\_index\ CCA~ = T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_intra\_CCA~ +
T ~SSB\_measurement\_period\_intra\_CCA~ ms

T~identify\_intra\_with\_index\_CCA~ = T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_intra\_CCA~ + T
~SSB\_measurement\_period\_intra\_CCA~ + T~SSB\_time\_index\_intra\_CCA~

Where:

T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_intra\_CCA~: it is the time period used in PSS/SSS
detection given in table 9.2A.6.1-1.

T~SSB\_time\_index\_intra\_CCA~: it is the time period used to acquire
the index of the SSB being measured given in table 9.2A.6.1-2.

T ~SSB\_measurement\_period\_intra\_CCA~: equal to a measurement period
of SSB based measurement given in table 9.2A.6.2-1 or 9.2A.6.1-3.
CSSF~intra~: it is a carrier specific scaling factor and is determined
according to CSSF~within\_gap,i~ in clause 9.1.5.2 for measurement
conducted within measurement gaps.

If SCG DRX is in use, intra-frequency cell identification requirements
specified in Table 9.2A.6.1-1 and Table 9.2A.6.1-2 shall depend on the
SCG DRX cycle. Otherwise, the requirements for when DRX is not in use
shall apply.

The requirements apply provided any two closest SMTC occasions available
at the UE for the measurement shall be separated by no more than the
maximum time requirement for the cell to remain known defined in clause
9.2A.4.3.

Table 9.2A.6.1-1: Time period for PSS/SSS detection

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Condition                        | T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_intra\_CCA~     |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | max(600ms, (5+L~PSS/SSS,gaps~) x |
|                                  | max(MGRP, SMTC period)) x        |
|                                  | CSSF~intra~                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle≤ 320ms                 | max(600ms, ceil(1.5x             |
|                                  | (5+L~PSS/SSS,gaps~)) x max(DRX   |
|                                  | cycle, MGRP, SMTC period)) x     |
|                                  | CSSF~intra~                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle\>320ms                 | (5+L~PSS/SSS,gaps~) x (MGRP, DRX |
|                                  | cycle) x CSSF~intra~             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: When DRX is not          |                                  |
| configured, L~PSS/SSS,gaps~ is   |                                  |
| the number of SMTC occasions not |                                  |
| available at the UE during       |                                  |
| T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_intra\_CCA~ for |                                  |
| PSS/SSS detection, where         |                                  |
| L~PSS/SSS,gaps~                  |                                  |
| \<L~PSS/SSS,gaps,max~. When DRX  |                                  |
| is configured, L~PSS/SSS,gaps~   |                                  |
| is the number of DRX cycles in   |                                  |
| which at least one SMTC occasion |                                  |
| is not available at the UE       |                                  |
| during                           |                                  |
| T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_intra\_CCA~ for |                                  |
| PSS/SSS detection, where         |                                  |
| L~PSS/SSS,gaps~                  |                                  |
| \<L~PSS/SSS,gaps,max~. When      |                                  |
| configured with DRX, the UE is   |                                  |
| not required to determine the    |                                  |
| availability of SMTC occasions   |                                  |
| more frequent than once per DRX  |                                  |
| cycle. When configured with      |                                  |
| measurement gaps, the UE is not  |                                  |
| required to determine the        |                                  |
| availability of SMTC occasions   |                                  |
| more frequent than once during   |                                  |
| MGRP. FFS: The UE is not         |                                  |
| required to determine the        |                                  |
| availability of SMTC occasions   |                                  |
| more frequent than what is       |                                  |
| required by CSSF~intra~.         |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: L~PSS/SSS,gaps,max,~ =7  |                                  |
| for Max(DRX cycle, SMTC period,  |                                  |
| MGRP)≤40ms where DRX cycle is 0  |                                  |
| for non-DRX, L~PSS/SSS,gaps,max~ |                                  |
| =5 for 40ms\<Max(DRX cycle, SMTC |                                  |
| period, MGRP)≤320ms,             |                                  |
| L~PSS/SSS,gaps,max~ =3 for DRX   |                                  |
| cycle\>320ms.                    |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 3: Upon exceeding           |                                  |
| L~PSS/SSS,gaps,max~, the UE is   |                                  |
| not required to meet the         |                                  |
| requirements for PSS/SSS         |                                  |
| detection.                       |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

Table 9.2A.6.1-2: Time period for time index detection

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Condition                        | T~SSB\_time\_index\_intra\_CCA~  |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | max(120ms, (3+L~ind,gaps~) x     |
|                                  | max(MGRP, SMTC period)) x        |
|                                  | CSSF~intra~                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle≤ 320ms                 | max(120ms, ceil(1.5x             |
|                                  | (3+L~ind,gaps~)) x max(MGRP,     |
|                                  | SMTC period,DRX cycle) x         |
|                                  | CSSF~intra~)                     |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle\>320ms                 | (3+L~ind,gaps~) x (MGRP, DRX     |
|                                  | cycle) x CSSF~intra~             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: When DRX is not          |                                  |
| configured, L~ind,gaps~ is the   |                                  |
| number of SMTC occasions not     |                                  |
| available at the UE during       |                                  |
| T~SSB\_time\_index\_intra\_CCA~  |                                  |
| for index detection where        |                                  |
| L~ind,gaps~ \< L~ind,gaps,max~.  |                                  |
| When DRX is configured,          |                                  |
| L~ind,gaps~ is the number of DRX |                                  |
| cycles in which at least one     |                                  |
| SMTC occasion is not available   |                                  |
| at the UE during                 |                                  |
| T~SSB\_time\_index\_intra\_CCA~  |                                  |
| for index detection where        |                                  |
| L~ind,gaps~ \< L~ind,gaps,max~.  |                                  |
| When configured with DRX, the UE |                                  |
| is not required to determine the |                                  |
| availability of SMTC occasions   |                                  |
| more frequent than once per DRX  |                                  |
| cycle. When configured with      |                                  |
| measurement gaps, the UE is not  |                                  |
| required to determine the        |                                  |
| availability of SMTC occasions   |                                  |
| more frequent than once during   |                                  |
| MGRP. FFS: The UE is not         |                                  |
| required to determine the        |                                  |
| availability of SMTC occasions   |                                  |
| more frequent than what is       |                                  |
| required by CSSF~intra~.         |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: L~ind,gaps,max,~ = 5 for |                                  |
| Max(DRX cycle, SMTC period,      |                                  |
| MGRP)≤40ms where DRX cycle is 0  |                                  |
| for non-DRX, L~ind,gaps,max~ = 3 |                                  |
| for 40ms\<Max(DRX cycle, SMTC    |                                  |
| period, MGRP)≤320ms,             |                                  |
| L~ind,gaps,max~ = 2 for DRX      |                                  |
| cycle\>320ms.                    |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 3: Upon exceeding           |                                  |
| L~ind,gaps,max~ over the         |                                  |
| T~SSB\_time\_index\_intra\_CCA~  |                                  |
| period of time, the UE has to    |                                  |
| restart the time index detection |                                  |
| procedure.                       |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

#### 9.2A.6.2 Intra-frequency Measurement Period

The measurement period for intra-frequency measurements with gaps is as
shown in table 9.2A.6.2-1.

If SCG DRX is in use, intra-frequency measurement period requirements
specified in Table 9.2A.6.2-1 shall depend on the SCG DRX cycle.
Otherwise, the requirements for when DRX is not in use shall apply.

The requirements apply provided any two closest SMTC occasions available
at the UE for the measurement shall be separated by no more than the
maximum time requirement for the cell to remain known defined in clause
9.2A.4.3.

When the time period of unsuccessful measurement attempts due to
exceeding the maximum number of unavailable at the UE SMTC occasions of
an already identified cell exceeds the maximum time requirement for the
cell to remain known defined in clause 9.2A.4.3, UE shall stop the
measurement attempts on this SSB and perform the detection procedure
again like for any other SSB.

Table 9.2A.6.2-1: Measurement period for intra-frequency measurements
with gaps

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Condition                        | T                                |
|                                  | ~SSB\_                           |
|                                  | measurement\_period\_intra\_CCA~ |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | max(200ms, (5+L~meas,gaps~) x    |
|                                  | max(MGRP, SMTC period)) x        |
|                                  | CSSF~intra~                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle≤ 320ms                 | max(200ms, ceil(1.5x             |
|                                  | (5+L~meas,gaps~)) x max(MGRP,    |
|                                  | SMTC period,DRX cycle)) x        |
|                                  | CSSF~intra~                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle\>320ms                 | (5+L~meas,gaps~) x (MGRP, DRX    |
|                                  | cycle) x CSSF~intra~             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: When DRX is not          |                                  |
| configured, L~meas,gaps~ is the  |                                  |
| number of SMTC occasions not     |                                  |
| available at the UE during       |                                  |
| T~SSB\_time\_index\_intra\_CCA~  |                                  |
| for measurement where            |                                  |
| L~meas,gaps~ \<                  |                                  |
| L~meas,gaps,max~. When DRX is    |                                  |
| configured, L~meas,gaps~ is the  |                                  |
| number of DRX cycles in which at |                                  |
| least one SMTC occasion is not   |                                  |
| available at the UE during       |                                  |
| T~SSB\_time\_index\_intra\_CCA~  |                                  |
| for measurement where            |                                  |
| L~meas,gaps~ \<                  |                                  |
| L~meas,gaps,max~. When           |                                  |
| configured with DRX, the UE is   |                                  |
| not required to determine the    |                                  |
| availability of SMTC occasions   |                                  |
| more frequent than once per DRX  |                                  |
| cycle. When configured with      |                                  |
| measurement gaps, the UE is not  |                                  |
| required to determine the        |                                  |
| availability of SMTC occasions   |                                  |
| more frequent than once during   |                                  |
| MGRP. FFS: The UE is not         |                                  |
| required to determine the        |                                  |
| availability of SMTC occasions   |                                  |
| more frequent than what is       |                                  |
| required by CSSF~intra~.         |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: L~meas,gaps,max~ = 7 for |                                  |
| Max(DRX cycle, SMTC period,      |                                  |
| MGRP)≤40ms where DRX cycle is 0  |                                  |
| for non-DRX, L~meas,gaps,max~ =  |                                  |
| 5 for 40ms\<Max(DRX cycle, SMTC  |                                  |
| period, MGRP)≤320ms,             |                                  |
| L~meas,gaps,max~ = 3 for DRX     |                                  |
| cycle\>320ms.                    |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 3: Upon exceeding           |                                  |
| L~meas,gaps,max~ over the T      |                                  |
| ~SSB\_                           |                                  |
| measurement\_period\_intra\_CCA~ |                                  |
| period of time, the UE has to    |                                  |
| restart the measurement          |                                  |
| procedure.                       |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

### 9.2A.7 Intra-frequency RSSI and Channel occupancy measurements

#### 9.2A.7.1 Intra-frequency RSSI measurements

An RSSI measurement is defined as an intra-frequency measurement
provided that the RSSI measurement bandwidth is fully contained within
the current carrier bandwidth of the UE.

The UE physical layer shall be capable of performing the RSSI
measurements, defined in TS 38.215 \[4\] on one or more serving carriers
operating with CCA, TS 37.213 \[33\], if the carrier(s) are indicated by
higher layers \[2\], and report the RSSI measurements to higher layers.
The UE physical layer shall provide to higher layers a single RSSI
sample for each OFDM symbol within each configured RSSI measurement
duration \[2\] occurring with a configured RSSI measurement timing
configuration periodicity \[2\], *rmtc-Periodicity*.

The UE can perform RSSI measurements without measurement gaps if RSSI
measurement bandwidth is fully within the active DL BWP of the UE.

The measurement period for intra-frequency RSSI measurements without
measurement gaps is as shown in Table 9.2A.7.1-1 and Table 9.2A.7.1-2.
The measurement period for intra-frequency RSSI measurements with
measurement gaps is as shown in Table 9.2A.7.1-3.

Table 9.2A.7.1-1: Measurement period for intra-frequency RSSI
measurements without measurement gaps when SMTC and RMTC are overlapping

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Condition ^NOTE1,2^              | T                                |
|                                  | ~RSSI\_                          |
|                                  | measurement\_period\_intra\_cca~ |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | max(*reportInterval*,            |
|                                  | *rmtc-Per                        |
|                                  | iodicity*\*CSSF~outside\_gap,i~) |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX                              | max(*reportInterval*,            |
|                                  | max(*rmtc-Periodicity*, DRX      |
|                                  | cycle) \*CSSF~outside\_gap,i~)   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: DRX or non DRX           |                                  |
| requirements apply according to  |                                  |
| the conditions described in      |                                  |
| clause 3.6.1                     |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: CSSF~outside\_gap,\ i~   |                                  |
| is a carrier specific scaling    |                                  |
| factor and is determined         |                                  |
| according to CSSF                |                                  |
| ~outside\_gap,i~ in clause       |                                  |
| 9.1.5.1 for measurement          |                                  |
| conducted outside measurement    |                                  |
| gap.                             |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

Table 9.2A.7.1-2: Measurement period for intra-frequency RSSI
measurements without measurement gaps when SMTC and RMTC are not
overlapping

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Condition ^NOTE1,2^              | T                                |
|                                  | ~RSSI\_                          |
|                                  | measurement\_period\_intra\_cca~ |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | max(*reportInt*erval,            |
|                                  | N~intra-MO~\**rmtc-Periodicity*) |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX                              | max(*reportInt*erval,            |
|                                  | N~in                             |
|                                  | tra-MO~\*max(*rmtc-Periodicity*, |
|                                  | DRXcycle length))                |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: DRX or non DRX           |                                  |
| requirements apply according to  |                                  |
| the conditions described in      |                                  |
| clause 3.6.1                     |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: N~intra-MO~ is defined   |                                  |
| as the number of measurement     |                                  |
| objects that can be measured     |                                  |
| without gaps                     |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

Table 9.2A.7.1-3: Measurement period for intra-frequency RSSI
measurements with measurement gaps

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Condition ^NOTE1,2^              | T                                |
|                                  | ~RSSI\_                          |
|                                  | measurement\_period\_intra\_cca~ |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | max(*reportInterval*,            |
|                                  | max(*rmtc-Periodicity, MGRP*) x  |
|                                  | CSSF~intra~)                     |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX                              | max(*reportInterval*,            |
|                                  | max(*rmtc-Periodicity*, MGRP,DRX |
|                                  | cycle length) x CSSF~intra~)     |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: DRX or non DRX           |                                  |
| requirements apply according to  |                                  |
| the conditions described in      |                                  |
| clause 3.6.1                     |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: CSSF~intra~ is a carrier |                                  |
| specific scaling factor and is   |                                  |
| determined according to          |                                  |
| CSSF~within\_gap,i~ in clause    |                                  |
| 9.1.5.2 for measurement          |                                  |
| conducted within measurement     |                                  |
| gaps.                            |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

If the UE requires measurement gaps to perform intra-frequency
measurements, a single measurement gap pattern is used for all
concurrent intra-frequency measurements, including intra-frequency RSSI
measurements. The RSSI measurement duration and the measurement gap
should be aligned, and the following additional condition should be
fulfilled:

\- Entire RSSI measurement duration should be contained in the
measurement gap.

The RSSI measurement performed and reported according to this clause
shall meet the RSSI measurement accuracy requirement in Clause
10.1.34.1. The reported RSSI measurement values contained in measurement
reports shall be based on the measurement report mapping requirements
specified in Clause 10.1.34.3.

#### 9.2A.7.2 Intra-frequency Channel occupancy measurements

The UE shall be capable of estimating the channel occupancy on one or
more serving carrier frequencies indicated by higher layers \[2\], based
on RSSI samples provided by the physical layer.

The UE can perform channel occupancy measurements without measurement
gaps if RSSI measurement bandwidth is fully within the active DL BWP of
the UE.

The measurement period for intra-frequency channel occupancy
measurements without measurement gap is as shown in Table 9.2A.7.2-1 and
Table 9.2A.7.1-2. The measurement period for intra-frequency RSSI
measurements with measurement gaps is as shown in Table 9.2A.7.2-3.

Table 9.2A.7.2-1: Measurement period for intra-frequency Channel
Occupancy measurements without measurement gaps when SMTC and RMTC are
overlapping

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Condition ^NOTE1,2^              | T                                |
|                                  | ~RSSI\_                          |
|                                  | measurement\_period\_intra\_cca~ |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | max(*reportInterval*,            |
|                                  | *rmtc-Per                        |
|                                  | iodicity*\*CSSF~outside\_gap,i~) |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX                              | max(*reportInterval*,            |
|                                  | max(*rmtc-Periodicity*, DRX      |
|                                  | cycle) \*CSSF~outside\_gap,i~)   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: DRX or non DRX           |                                  |
| requirements apply according to  |                                  |
| the conditions described in      |                                  |
| clause 3.6.1                     |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: CSSF~outside\_gap,\ i~is |                                  |
| a carrier specific scaling       |                                  |
| factor and is determined         |                                  |
| according to CSSF~within\_gap,i~ |                                  |
| in clause 9.1.5.1 for            |                                  |
| measurement conducted outside    |                                  |
| measurement gap.                 |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

Table 9.2A.7.2-2: Measurement period for intra-frequency Channel
Occupancy measurements without measurement gaps when SMTC and RMTC are
not overlapping

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Condition ^NOTE1,2^              | T                                |
|                                  | ~RSSI\_                          |
|                                  | measurement\_period\_intra\_cca~ |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | max(*reportInt*erval,            |
|                                  | N~intra-MO~\**rmtc-Periodicity*) |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX                              | max(*reportInt*erval,            |
|                                  | N~in                             |
|                                  | tra-MO~\*max(*rmtc-Periodicity*, |
|                                  | DRXcycle length))                |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: DRX or non DRX           |                                  |
| requirements apply according to  |                                  |
| the conditions described in      |                                  |
| clause 3.6.1                     |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: N~intra-MO~ is defined   |                                  |
| as the number of measurement     |                                  |
| objects that can be measured     |                                  |
| without gaps                     |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

Table 9.2A.7.2-3: Measurement period for intra-frequency Channel
Occupancy measurements with measurement gaps

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Condition ^NOTE1,2^              | T                                |
|                                  | ~RSSI\_                          |
|                                  | measurement\_period\_intra\_cca~ |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | max(*reportInterval*,            |
|                                  | max(*rmtc-Periodicity, MGRP*) x  |
|                                  | CSSF~intra~)                     |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX                              | max(*reportInterval*,            |
|                                  | max(*rmtc-Periodicity*, MGRP,DRX |
|                                  | cycle length) x CSSF~intra~)     |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: DRX or non DRX           |                                  |
| requirements apply according to  |                                  |
| the conditions described in      |                                  |
| clause 3.6.1                     |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: CSSF~intra~ is a carrier |                                  |
| specific scaling factor and is   |                                  |
| determined according to          |                                  |
| CSSF~within\_gap,i~ in clause    |                                  |
| 9.1.5.2 for measurement          |                                  |
| conducted within measurement     |                                  |
| gaps.                            |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

If the UE requires measurement gaps to perform intra-frequency
measurements, a single measurement gap pattern is used for all
concurrent intra-frequency measurements, including intra-frequency RSSI
measurements. The RSSI measurement duration and the measurement gap
should be aligned, and the following additional condition should be
fulfilled:

\- Entire RSSI measurement duration should be contained in the
measurement gap.

The channel occupancy measurement performed and reported according to
this clause shall meet the channel occupancy measurement accuracy
requirements in Clause 10.1.35.1. The reported channel occupancy
measurement values contained in measurement reports shall be based on
the measurement reporting range specified in TS 38.331 \[2\].

#### 9.2A.7.3 Scheduling restriction during RSSI and Channel Occupancy measurements

When the UE performs intra-frequency RSSI/CO measurements in unlicensed
spectrum, the following restrictions apply due to RSSI/CO measurements:

\- The UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS on UL symbols
which are overlapping in time with the RSSI measurement symbols
configured by RMTC.

When intra-band carrier aggregation in unlicensed spectrum is performed,
the scheduling restrictions due to a given serving cell should also
apply to all other serving cells in the same band on the symbols that
fully or partially overlap with the aforementioned restricted symbols.

9.3 NR inter-frequency measurements
-----------------------------------

### 9.3.1 Introduction

A measurement is defined as an SSB based inter-frequency measurement
provided it is not defined as an intra-frequency measurement according
to clause 9.2.

The UE shall be able to identify new inter-frequency cells and perform
SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ, and SS-SINR measurements of identified inter-frequency
cells if carrier frequency information is provided by PCell or PSCell,
even if no explicit neighbour list with physical layer cell identities
is provided.

A measurement is defined as an inter-frequency SSB based measurements
without measurement gaps for UE capable of *interFrequencyMeas-NoGap*
provided

\- the UE supports *interFrequencyMeas-Nogap-r16* \[15\], and

\- the SSB is completely contained in the active BWP of the UE.

For inter-frequency SSB based measurements without measurement gaps, UE
may cause scheduling restriction as specified in clause 9.3.5.3.

Note: Non-CA capable UE is not expected to indicate support of
*interFrequencyMeas-Nogap-r16* \[15\].

SSB based measurements are configured along with a measurement timing
configuration (SMTC) per carrier, which provides periodicity, duration
and offset information on a window of up to 5ms where the measurements
on the configured inter-frequency carrier are to be performed. For
inter-frequency connected mode measurements, one measurement window
periodicity may be configured per inter-frequency measurement object.

When measurement gaps are needed, the UE is not expected to detect SSB
and measure RSSI of RSRQ on an inter-frequency measurement object which
start earlier than the gap starting time + switching time, nor detect
SSB and measure RSSI of RSRQ which ends later than the gap end --
switching time. When the inter-frequency cells are in FR2 and the per-FR
gap is configured to the UE in EN-DC, SA NR, NE-DC and NR-DC, or the
serving cells are in FR2, the inter-frequency cells are in FR2 and the
per-UE gap is configured to the UE in SA NR and NR-DC, the switching
time is 0.25ms. Otherwise the switching time is 0.5ms.

The requirements in this clause shall also apply, when the UE is
configured to perform SRS carrier based switching and using measurement
gaps.

Longer measurement period would be expected during the period
T~identify\_CGI~ when the UE is requested to decode an NR CGI.

### 9.3.2 Requirements applicability

The requirements in clause 9.3 apply, provided:

\- The cell being identified or measured is detectable.

An inter-frequency cell shall be considered detectable when for each
relevant SSB:

\- SS-RSRP related side conditions given in clauses 10.1.4 and 10.1.5
for FR1 and FR2, respectively, for a corresponding Band,

\- SS-RSRQ related side conditions given in clauses 10.1.9 and 10.1.10
for FR1 and FR2, respectively, for a corresponding Band,

\- SS-SINR related side conditions given in clauses 10.1.14 and 10.1.15
for FR1 and FR2, respectively, for a corresponding Band,

\- SSB\_RP and SSB Ês/Iot according to Annex B.2.3 for a corresponding
Band.

#### 9.3.2.1 Void

#### 9.3.2.2 Void

### 9.3.3 Number of cells and number of SSB

#### 9.3.3.1 Requirements for FR1

For each inter-frequency layer, during each layer 1 measurement period,
the UE shall be capable of performing SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ, and SS-SINR
measurements for at least:

\- 4 identified cells, and

\- 7 SSBs with different SSB index and/or PCI on the inter-frequency
layer.

#### 9.3.3.2 Requirements for FR2

For each inter-frequency layer, during each layer 1 measurement period,
the UE shall be capable of performing SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ, and SS-SINR
measurements for at least:

\- 4 identified cells, and

\- 10 SSBs with different SSB index and/or PCI on the inter-frequency
layer, and

\- 1 SSB per identified cell.

### 9.3.4 Inter-frequency measurement with measurement gaps

When measurement gaps are provided, or the UE supports capability of
conducting such measurements without gaps, the UE shall be able to
identify a new detectable inter frequency cell within
T~identify\_inter\_without\_index~ if UE is not indicated to report SSB
based RRM measurement result with the associated SSB index
(*reportQuantityRsIndexes* or *maxNrofRSIndexesToReport* is not
configured). Otherwise UE shall be able to identify a new detectable
inter frequency cell within T~identify\_inter\_with\_index~. The UE
shall be able to identify a new detectable inter frequency SS block of
an already detected cell within T~identify\_inter\_without\_index.~

T~identify\_inter\_without\_index~ = (T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_inter~ + T
~SSB\_measurement\_period\_inter~) ms

T~identify\_inter\_with\_index~ = (T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_inter~ + T
~SSB\_measurement\_period\_inter~ + T~SSB\_time\_index\_inter~) ms

Where:

T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_inter~: it is the time period used in PSS/SSS detection
given in table 9.3.4-1 and table 9.3.4-2.

T~SSB\_time\_index\_inter~: it is the time period used to acquire the
index of the SSB being measured given in table 9.3.4-3 and table
9.3.4-4.

T~SSB\_measurement\_period\_inter~: equal to a measurement period of SSB
based measurement given in table 9.3.5-1 and table 9.3.5-2.

M~pss/sss\_sync\_inter~: For a UE supporting FR2 power class 1,
M~pss/sss\_sync\_inter~ = 64 samples. For a UE supporting FR2 power
class 2, M~pss/sss\_sync\_inter~ = 40 samples. For a UE supporting FR2
power class 3, M~pss/sss\_sync\_inter~ = 40 samples. For a UE supporting
FR2 power class 4, M~pss/sss\_sync\_inter~ = 40 samples.

M~SSB\_index\_inter~: For a UE supporting FR2 power class 1,
M~SSB\_index\_inter~ = 40 samples. For a UE supporting FR2 power class
2, M~SSB\_index\_inter~ = 24 samples. For a UE supporting FR2 power
class 3, M~SSB\_index\_inter~ = 24 samples. For a UE supporting FR2
power class 4, M~SSB\_index\_inter~ = 24 samples.

M~meas\_period\_inter~: For a UE supporting FR2 power class 1,
M~meas\_period\_inter~ =64 samples. For a UE supporting FR2 power class
2, M~meas\_period\_inter~=40 samples. For a UE supporting FR2 power
class 3, M~meas\_period\_inter~ =40 samples. For a UE supporting FR2
power class 4, M~meas\_period\_inter~ = 40 samples.

CSSF~inter~: it is a carrier specific scaling factor and is determined
according to CSSF~within\_gap,i~ in clause 9.1.5.2 for measurement
conducted within measurement gaps.

**Table 9.3.4-1: Time period for PSS/SSS detection (Frequency range
FR1)**

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| **Condition ^NOTE1,2^**          | **T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_inter~**      |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | Max(600ms, 8 × Max(MGRP, SMTC    |
|                                  | period)) × CSSF~inter~           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                | Max(600ms, Ceil(8\*1.5) ×        |
|                                  | Max(MGRP, SMTC period, DRX       |
|                                  | cycle)) × CSSF~inter~            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle \> 320ms               | 8 × DRX cycle × CSSF~inter~      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: DRX or non DRX           |                                  |
| requirements apply according to  |                                  |
| the conditions described in      |                                  |
| clause 3.6.1                     |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: In EN-DC operation, the  |                                  |
| parameters, timers and           |                                  |
| scheduling requests referred to  |                                  |
| in clause 3.6.1 are for the      |                                  |
| secondary cell group. The DRX    |                                  |
| cycle is the DRX cycle of the    |                                  |
| secondary cell group.            |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

**Table 9.3.4-2: Time period for PSS/SSS detection, (Frequency range
FR2)**

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| **Condition ^NOTE1,2^**          | **T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_inter~**      |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | Max(600ms,                       |
|                                  | M~pss/sss\_sync\_inter~ ×        |
|                                  | Max(MGRP, SMTC period)) ×        |
|                                  | CSSF~inter~                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                | Max(600ms, (1.5 ×                |
|                                  | M~pss/sss\_sync\_inter~) ×       |
|                                  | Max(MGRP, SMTC period, DRX       |
|                                  | cycle)) × CSSF~inter~            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle \> 320ms               | M~pss/sss\_sync\_inter~ × DRX    |
|                                  | cycle × CSSF~inter~              |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: DRX or non DRX           |                                  |
| requirements apply according to  |                                  |
| the conditions described in      |                                  |
| clause 3.6.1                     |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: In EN-DC operation, the  |                                  |
| parameters, timers and           |                                  |
| scheduling requests referred to  |                                  |
| in clause 3.6.1 are for the      |                                  |
| secondary cell group. The DRX    |                                  |
| cycle is the DRX cycle of the    |                                  |
| secondary cell group.            |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

**Table 9.3.4-3: Time period for time index detection (Frequency range
FR1)**

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| **Condition ^NOTE1,2^**          | **T~SSB\_time\_index\_inter~**   |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | Max(120ms, 3 × Max(MGRP, SMTC    |
|                                  | period)) × CSSF~inter~           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                | Max(120ms, Ceil(3 × 1.5) ×       |
|                                  | Max(MGRP, SMTC period, DRX       |
|                                  | cycle)) × CSSF~inter~            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle \> 320ms               | 3 × DRX cycle × CSSF~inter~      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: DRX or non DRX           |                                  |
| requirements apply according to  |                                  |
| the conditions described in      |                                  |
| clause 3.6.1                     |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: In EN-DC operation, the  |                                  |
| parameters, timers and           |                                  |
| scheduling requests referred to  |                                  |
| in clause 3.6.1 are for the      |                                  |
| secondary cell group. The DRX    |                                  |
| cycle is the DRX cycle of the    |                                  |
| secondary cell group.            |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

**Table 9.3.4-4: Time period for time index detection (Frequency range
FR2)**

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| **Condition ^NOTE1,2^**          | **T~SSB\_time\_index\_inter~**   |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | Max(200ms, M~SSB\_index\_inter~  |
|                                  | × Max(MGRP, SMTC period)) ×      |
|                                  | CSSF~inter~                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                | Max(200ms, (1.5 ×                |
|                                  | M~SSB\_index\_inter~) ×          |
|                                  | Max(MGRP, SMTC period, DRX       |
|                                  | cycle)) × CSSF~inter~            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle \> 320ms               | M~SSB\_index\_inter~ × DRX cycle |
|                                  | × CSSF~inter~                    |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: DRX or non DRX           |                                  |
| requirements apply according to  |                                  |
| the conditions described in      |                                  |
| clause 3.6.1                     |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: In EN-DC operation, the  |                                  |
| parameters, timers and           |                                  |
| scheduling requests referred to  |                                  |
| in clause 3.6.1 are for the      |                                  |
| secondary cell group. The DRX    |                                  |
| cycle is the DRX cycle of the    |                                  |
| secondary cell group.            |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

#### 9.3.4.1 Void

#### 9.3.4.2 Void

### 9.3.5 Inter-frequency measurements

When measurement gaps are provided for inter frequency measurements, or
the UE supports capability of conducting such measurements without gaps,
the UE physical layer shall be capable of reporting SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ and
SS-SINR measurements to higher layers with measurement accuracy as
specified in clauses *10.1.4, 10.1.5, 10.1.9, 10.1.10, 10.1.14 and
10.1.15*, respectively, as shown in table 9.3.5-1 and 9.3.5-2:

**Table 9.3.5-1: Measurement period for inter-frequency measurements
with gaps (Frequency FR1)**

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| **Condition ^NOTE1,2^**          | **T                              |
|                                  | ~SS                              |
|                                  | B\_measurement\_period\_inter~** |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | Max(200ms, 8 × Max(MGRP, SMTC    |
|                                  | period)) × CSSF~inter~           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                | Max(200ms, Ceil(8 × 1.5) ×       |
|                                  | Max(MGRP, SMTC period, DRX       |
|                                  | cycle)) × CSSF~inter~            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle \> 320ms               | 8 × DRX cycle × CSSF~inter~      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: DRX or non DRX           |                                  |
| requirements apply according to  |                                  |
| the conditions described in      |                                  |
| clause 3.6.1                     |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: In EN-DC operation, the  |                                  |
| parameters, timers and           |                                  |
| scheduling requests referred to  |                                  |
| in clause 3.6.1 are for the      |                                  |
| secondary cell group. The DRX    |                                  |
| cycle is the DRX cycle of the    |                                  |
| secondary cell group.            |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

**Table 9.3.5-2: Measurement period for inter-frequency measurements
with gaps (Frequency FR2)**

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| **Condition ^NOTE1,2^**          | **T                              |
|                                  | ~SS                              |
|                                  | B\_measurement\_period\_inter~** |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | Max(400ms,                       |
|                                  | M~meas\_period\_inter~ ×         |
|                                  | Max(MGRP, SMTC period)) ×        |
|                                  | CSSF~inter~                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                | Max(400ms, (1.5 ×                |
|                                  | M~meas\_period\_inter~) ×        |
|                                  | Max(MGRP, SMTC period, DRX       |
|                                  | cycle)) × CSSF~inter~            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle \> 320ms               | M~meas\_period\_inter~ × DRX     |
|                                  | cycle × CSSF~inter~              |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: DRX or non DRX           |                                  |
| requirements apply according to  |                                  |
| the conditions described in      |                                  |
| clause 3.6.1                     |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: In EN-DC operation, the  |                                  |
| parameters, timers and           |                                  |
| scheduling requests referred to  |                                  |
| in clause 3.6.1 are for the      |                                  |
| secondary cell group. The DRX    |                                  |
| cycle is the DRX cycle of the    |                                  |
| secondary cell group.            |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

#### 9.3.5.1 Void

#### 9.3.5.2 Void

#### 9.3.5.3 Void

### 9.3.6 Inter-frequency measurements reporting requirements

#### 9.3.6.1 Periodic Reporting

*Reported SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ, and SS-SINR measurements contained in
periodically triggered measurement reports shall meet the requirements
in clauses 10.1.4.1, 10.1.5.1, 10.1.9.1, 10.1.10.1, 10.1.14.1 and
10.1.15.1, respectively.*

#### 9.3.6.2 Event-triggered Periodic Reporting

*Reported SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ, and SS-SINR measurements contained in event
triggered periodic measurement reports shall meet the requirements in
clauses 10.1.4.1, 10.1.5.1, 10.1.9.1, 10.1.10.1, 10.1.14.1 and
10.1.15.1, respectively.*

*The first report in event triggered periodic measurement reporting
shall meet the requirements specified in clause 9.3.6.3.*

#### 9.3.6.3 Event-triggered Reporting

*Reported SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ, and SS-SINR measurements contained in event
triggered measurement reports shall meet the requirements in clauses
10.1.4.1, 10.1.5.1, 10.1.9.1, 10.1.10.1, 10.1.14.1 and 10.1.15.1,
respectively.*

*The UE shall not send any event triggered measurement reports, as long
as no reporting criteria are fulfilled.*

*The measurement reporting delay is defined as the time between an event
that will trigger a measurement report and the point when the UE starts
to transmit the measurement report over the air interface. This
requirement assumes that the measurement report is not delayed by other
RRC signalling on the DCCH. This measurement reporting delay excludes a
delay uncertainty resulted when inserting the measurement report to the
TTI of the uplink DCCH. The delay uncertainty is: 2* × *TTI~DCCH~. This
measurement reporting delay excludes a delay which caused by no UL
resources for UE to send the measurement report.*

*The event triggered measurement reporting delay, measured without L3
filtering shall be* within T~identify\_inter\_without\_index~ if UE is
not indicated to report SSB based RRM measurement result with the
associated SSB index. Otherwise UE shall be able to identify a new
detectable inter frequency cell within T~identify\_inter\_with\_index~.
*Both* T~identify\_inter\_without\_index~ *and*
T~identify\_inter\_with\_index~ *are defined in clause 9.3.4. When L3
filtering is used an additional delay can be expected.* In EN-DC and
NE-DC operation, when the UE is configured to perform E-UTRA SRS
carrier-based switching an additional delay can be expected in FR1 if
the UE is capable of per-FR gap, or in both FR1 and FR2 if the UE is not
capable of per-FR gap.

*A cell is detectable only if at least one SSB measured from the cell
being configured remains detectable during the time period*
T~identify\_inter\_without\_index~ *or* T~identify\_inter\_with\_index~
*defined in clause 9.3.4. If a cell which has been detectable at least
for the time period* T~identify\_inter\_without\_index~ *or*
T~identify\_inter\_with\_index~ *defined in clause 9.3.4* becomes
undetectable for a period ≤ 5 seconds and then the cell becomes
detectable again with the same spatial reception parameter *and then
triggers the measurement report as per TS 38.331 \[2\], the event
triggered measurement reporting delay shall be less than*
T~SSB\_measurement\_period\_inter~ *defined in clause 9.3.5 provided the
timing to that cell has not changed more than* ± 3200/$2^{µ}$ Tc *while
measurement gap has not been available and the L3 filtering has not been
used*, where *µ* is the SCS configuration as defined in clause 4.2 of TS
38.211 \[3\]*. When L3 filtering is used an additional delay can be
expected.* In EN-DC and NE-DC operation, when the UE is configured to
perform E-UTRA SRS carrier-based switching an additional delay can be
expected in FR1 if the UE is capable of per-FR gap, or in both FR1 and
FR2 if the UE is not capable of per-FR gap.

### 9.3.7 Void

### 9.3.8 Inter-frequency SFTD measurement requirements

#### 9.3.8.1 Introduction

This clause contains requirements for a UE supporting NR inter-frequency
SFTD measurement and is applicable in RRC\_CONNECTED state. The UE
shall, depending on network request, perform inter-frequency SFTD
measurement and report SFTD result with or without SS-RSRP. The overall
delay includes RRC procedure delay defined in clause 12 in
TS 38.331 \[2\] and SFTD measurement reporting delay in clause 9.3.8.3.

UE which fulfils the requirements in clause 9.3.8 is not supposed to
fulfil the requirements defined in clause 9.2.5.4.

#### 9.3.8.2 SFTD Measurement delay

The requirements on SFTD measurement delay defined in this clause are
applicable under the side condition SCH Ês/Iot ≥ -3 dB for the
inter-frequency neighbour cell. Depending on configuration, the SFTD
measurement may be carried out with or without the support of configured
measurement gaps. In the current release, indication on whether to carry
out the SFTD measurement with or without measurement gaps is implicit
and depending on whether measurement gaps are configured.

The UE shall be able to detect, identify and measure SFTD of up to 3 of
the strongest applicable inter-frequency neighbour cells on the carrier
frequency provided in the SFTD measurement configuration. Further
depending on the SFTD measurement configuration, the UE shall
additionally report SS-RSRP for the one or more strongest cells. The UE
may or may not be configured with *cellsForWhichToReportSFTD*. The UE
does not expect *cellsForWhichToReportSFTD* to change during an ongoing
SFTD measurement.

When no measurement gaps are provided, the UE shall be capable of
finding the inter-frequency neighbour cell regardless of its SSB
position in the SMTC period, provided that the carrier frequency where
SFTD measurement is configured and the serving carrier(s) form a
supported CA or NR-DC band combination of the UE. The SFTD measurement
shall be conducted with sustained connection to the PCell and activated
SCell(s) in MCG. Depending on capability, the UE may be allowed to cause
a certain amount of interruptions for reconfiguration of the radio
receiver, as specified in clause 8.2.2.2.6.

When measurement gaps are provided, the UE shall be capable of finding
the inter-frequency neighbour cell under the additional condition that
the SSB at least occasionally falls within the measurement gap.

When no DRX is used, the UE shall be capable of determining SFTD within
a physical layer measurement period of T~measure\_SFTD1~ as follows:

> \- For SFTD measurements without measurement gaps, and without
> additional SS-RSRP reporting:

\- For carrier frequency in FR1: T~measure\_SFTD1~ = 14 SMTC periods

\- For carrier frequency in FR2: T~measure\_SFTD1~ = 112 SMTC periods

\- For SFTD measurements in measurement gaps, and without additional
SS-RSRP reporting:

\- For carrier frequency in FR1: T~measure\_SFTD1~ = CSSF~inter~ × 8 ×
Max(MGRP, SMTC period)

\- For carrier frequency in FR2: T~measure\_SFTD1~ = CSSF~inter~ × 64 ×
Max(MGRP, SMTC period))

\- For SFTD measurements without measurement gaps, and with additional
SS-RSRP reporting:

\- For carrier frequency in FR1: T~measure\_SFTD1~ = 19 SMTC periods

\- For carrier frequency in FR2: T~measure\_SFTD1~ = 152 SMTC periods

\- For SFTD measurements in measurement gaps, and with additional
SS-RSRP reporting:

\- For carrier frequency in FR1: T~measure\_SFTD1~ = CSSF~inter~ × 13 ×
Max(MGRP, SMTC period)

\- For carrier frequency in FR2: T~measure\_SFTD1~ = CSSF~inter~ × 104 ×
Max(MGRP, SMTC period)

where CSSF~inter~ is a carrier specific scaling factor and is determined
according to CSSF~within\_gap,i~ in clause 9.1.5.2 for measurement
conducted within measurement gaps.

When DRX is used, the same T~measure\_SFTD1~ as for non-DRX applies, but
the reporting delay depends on the DRX cycle length in use.

In case PCell is changed due to handover, the UE shall terminate the
inter-frequency SFTD measurement.

The measurement accuracy for the SFTD measurement shall fulfil the
requirement in clause 10.1.21.3. The measurement accuracy for
additionally reported SS-RSRP shall fulfil the requirement in clauses
10.1.4.1 and 10.1.5.1 for neighbour cell in FR1 and FR2, respectively.

#### 9.3.8.3 SFTD Measurement reporting delay

The SFTD measurement reporting delay is defined as the time between a
command that will trigger an SFTD measurement report and the point when
the UE starts to transmit the measurement report over the air interface.
This requirement assumes that the measurement report is not delayed by
other RRC signalling on the DCCH. This measurement reporting delay
excludes a delay uncertainty of 2 × TTI~DCCH~ resulting when inserting
the measurement report to the TTI of the uplink DCCH. This measurement
reporting delay excludes any delay caused by lack of UL resources for UE
to send the measurement report.

The SFTD measurement reporting delay shall be less than
T~measure\_SFTD1~ defined in clause 9.3.8.2 plus the RRC procedure delay
defined in TS 38.331 \[2\].

### 9.3.9 Inter frequency measurements without measurement gaps

#### 9.3.9.1 Inter frequency Cell identification

If UE supports *interFrequencyMeas-NoGap-r16* and the flag
*interFrequencyConfig-NoGap-r16* is configured by the Network, UE shall
be able to identify a new detectable inter frequency cell within
T~identify\_inter\_without\_index~ if UE is not indicated to report SSB
based RRM measurement result with the associated SSB index
(*reportQuantityRsIndexes* or *maxNrofRSIndexesToReport* is not
configured). Otherwise UE shall be able to identify a new detectable
inter frequency cell within T~identify\_inter\_with\_index~. The UE
shall be able to identify a new detectable inter frequency SS block of
an already detected cell within T~identify\_inter\_without\_index~. It
is assumed that when UE performs inter-frequency measurements without
measurement gaps in a TDD bands on FR1 and FR2, the following condition
is met:

> \- SFN and frame boundary across serving cell and inter-frequency
> neighbor cells is aligned

T~identify\_inter\_without\_index~ = (T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_inter~ + T
~SSB\_measurement\_period\_inter~) ms

T~identify\_inter\_with\_index~ = (T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_inter~ + T
~SSB\_measurement\_period\_inter~ + T~SSB\_time\_index\_inter~) ms

Where:

T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_inter~: it is the time period used in PSS/SSS detection
given in table 9.3.9.1-1 and table 9.3.9.1-2.

T~SSB\_time\_index\_inter~: it is the time period used to acquire the
index of the SSB being measured given in table 9.3.9.1-3.

T ~SSB\_measurement\_period\_inter~: equal to a measurement period of
SSB based measurement given in table 9.3.9.2-1 and table 9.3.9.2-2.

CSSF~inter~: it is a carrier specific scaling factor and is determined
according to CSSF~outside\_gap,i~ in clause 9.1.5.1 for measurement
conducted outside measurement gaps, i.e. when interfrequency SMTC is
fully non overlapping or partially overlapping with measurement gaps or
according to CSSF~within\_gap,i~ in clause 9.1.5.2 for measurement
conducted within measurement gaps, i.e. when interfrequency SMTC is
fully overlapping with measurement gaps.

M~pss/sss\_sync\_inter~: For a UE supporting FR2 power class 1,
M~pss/sss\_sync\_inter~ = 40 samples. For a UE supporting FR2 power
class 2, M~pss/sss\_sync\_inter~ = 24 samples. For a UE supporting FR2
power class 3, M~pss/sss\_sync\_inter~ = 24 samples. For a UE supporting
FR2 power class 4, M~pss/sss\_sync~ = 24 samples.

M~meas\_period\_inter~: For a UE supporting FR2 power class 1,
M~meas\_period\_inter~ =40 samples. For a vehicle mounted UE supporting
FR2 power class 2, M~meas\_period\_inter~ =24 samples. For a UE
supporting FR2 power class 3, M~meas\_period\_inter~ =24 samples. For a
UE supporting FR2 power class 4, M~meas\_period\_inter~ = 24 samples.

When interfrequency SMTC is fully non overlapping with measurement gaps
or interfrequency SMTC is fully overlapping with MGs, Kp=1.

When interfrequency SMTC is partially overlapping with measurement gaps,
Kp = 1/(1- (SMTC period /MGRP)), where SMTC period \< MGRP.

For FR2,

K~layer1\_measurement~=1,

\- if all of the reference signals configured for RLM, BFD, CBD or
L1-RSRP for beam reporting on any FR2 serving frequency in the same band
outside measurement gap are not fully overlapped by inter-frequency SMTC
occasions, or

\- if all of the reference signal configured for RLM, BFD, CBD or
L1-RSRP for beam reporting on any FR2 serving frequency in the same band
outside measurement gap and fully-overlapped by inter-frequency SMTC
occasions are not overlapped with any of the SSB symbols and the RSSI
symbols, and 1 symbol before each consecutive SSB symbols and the RSSI
symbols, and 1 symbol after each consecutive SSB symbols and the RSSI
symbols, given that *SSB-ToMeasure* and *SS-RSSI-Measurement* are
configured, where SSB symbols are indicated by *SSB-ToMeasure* and RSSI
symbols are indicated by *SS-RSSI-Measurement*;

K~layer1\_measurement~=1.5, otherwise.

If the above-mentioned reference signal configured for L1-RSRP
measurement is aperiodic CSI-RS resource, longer cell identification
delay would be expected.

Table 9.3.9.1-1: Time period for PSS/SSS detection, (FR1)

  DRX cycle                                                                                                                                                     T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_inter~
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  No DRX                                                                                                                                                        max( 600ms, ceil( 5 x K~p~) x SMTC period )^Note\ 1^ x CSSF~inter~
  DRX cycle≤ 320ms                                                                                                                                              max( 600ms, ceil(1.5x 5 x K~p~) x max(SMTC period,DRX cycle)) x CSSF~inter~
  DRX cycle\>320ms                                                                                                                                              ceil(5 x K~p~) x DRX cycle x CSSF~inter~
  NOTE 1: If different SMTC periodicities are configured for different cells, the SMTC period in the requirement is the one used by the cell being identified   

Table 9.3.9.1-2: Time period for PSS/SSS detection, (FR2)

  DRX cycle                                                                                                                                                     T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_inter~
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  No DRX                                                                                                                                                        max(600ms, ceil(M~pss/sss\_sync\_inter~ x K~p~ x K~layer1\_measurement~) x SMTC period)^Note\ 1^ x CSSF~inter~
  DRX cycle≤ 320ms                                                                                                                                              max(600ms, ceil(1.5 x M~pss/sss\_sync\_inter~ x K~p~ x K~layer1\_measurement~) x max(SMTC period,DRX cycle)) x CSSF~inter~
  DRX cycle\>320ms                                                                                                                                              ceil(M~pss/sss\_sync\_inter~ x K~p~ x K~layer1\_measurement~) x DRX cycle x CSSF~inter~
  NOTE 1: If different SMTC periodicities are configured for different cells, the SMTC period in the requirement is the one used by the cell being identified   

Table 9.3.9.1-3: Time period for time index detection (FR1)

  DRX cycle                                                                                                                                                     T~SSB\_time\_index\_inter~
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  No DRX                                                                                                                                                        max(120ms, ceil( 3 x K~p~ ) x SMTC period)^Note\ 1^ x CSSF~inter~
  DRX cycle≤ 320ms                                                                                                                                              max(120ms, ceil (1.5 x 3 x K~p~) x max(SMTC period,DRX cycle)) x CSSF~inter~
  DRX cycle\>320ms                                                                                                                                              Ceil(3 x K~p~) x DRX cycle x CSSF~inter~
  NOTE 1: If different SMTC periodicities are configured for different cells, the SMTC period in the requirement is the one used by the cell being identified   

#### 9.3.9.2 Measurement period 

The UE physical layer shall be capable of reporting SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ and
SS-SINR measurements to higher layers with measurement accuracy as
specified in clauses *10.1.4, 10.1.5, 10.1.9, 10.1.10, 10.1.14 and
10.1.15*, respectively, as shown in table 9.3.9.2-1 and 9.3.9.2-2, if UE
supports inter-frequency measurement without measurement gaps:

Table 9.3.9.2-1: Measurement period for inter-frequency measurements
without gaps ((FR1)

  DRX cycle                                                                                                                                                     T ~SSB\_measurement\_period\_inter~
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  No DRX                                                                                                                                                        max(200ms, ceil( 5 x K~p~) x SMTC period)^Note\ 1^ x CSSF~inter~
  DRX cycle≤ 320ms                                                                                                                                              max(200ms, ceil(1.5x 5 x K~p~) x max(SMTC period,DRX cycle)) x CSSF~inter~
  DRX cycle\>320ms                                                                                                                                              ceil( 5 x K~p~ ) x DRX cycle x CSSF~inter~
  NOTE 1: If different SMTC periodicities are configured for different cells, the SMTC period in the requirement is the one used by the cell being identified   

Table 9.3.9.2-2: Measurement period for inter-frequency measurements
without gaps (FR2)

  DRX cycle                                                                                                                                                     T ~SSB\_measurement\_period\_inter~
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  No DRX                                                                                                                                                        max(400ms, ceil(M~meas\_period\_inter~ x K~p~ x K~layer1\_measurement~) x SMTC period)^Note\ 1^ x CSSF~inter~
  DRX cycle≤ 320ms                                                                                                                                              max(400ms, ceil(1.5x M~meas\_period\_inter~ x K~p~ x K~layer1\_measurement~) x max(SMTC period,DRX cycle)) x CSSF~inter~
  DRX cycle\>320ms                                                                                                                                              ceil(M~meas\_period\_inter~ xK~p~ x K~layer1\_measurement~) x DRX cycle x CSSF~inter~
  NOTE 1: If different SMTC periodicities are configured for different cells, the SMTC period in the requirement is the one used by the cell being identified   

#### 9.3.9.3 Scheduling availability of UE during inter-frequency measurements

If UE supports *interFrequencyMeas-NoGap-r16* and the flag
*interFrequencyConfig-NoGap-r16* is configured by the Network, UE is
required to be capable of measuring without measurement gaps when the
SSB is completely contained in the active bandwidth part of the UE. When
any of the conditions in the following clauses is met, there are
restrictions on the scheduling availability; otherwise, there is no
scheduling restriction. Note that the SSB symbols to be measured in the
following clauses are the SSB symbols indicated by SSB-ToMeasure \[2\],
if it is configured; otherwise, all L SSB symbols within the SMTC window
duration defined in clause 4.1 of TS 38.213 \[3\] are included.

The scheduling availability requirements when UE performs
inter-frequency measurements without measurement gaps in a TDD bands on
FR1 and FR2 in clause 9.3.9.3.1\~9.3.9.3.3 are valid under the following
conditions:

\- SFN and frame boundary across serving cell and inter-frequency
neighbor cells is aligned, and

##### 9.3.9.3.1 Scheduling availability of UE performing measurements in TDD bands on FR1

When UE performs inter-frequency measurements without measurement gaps
in a TDD band, the following restrictions apply due to SS-RSRP or
SS-SINR measurement

\- UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS on SSB symbols to be
measured, and on 1 data symbol before each consecutive SSB symbols to be
measured and 1 data symbol after each consecutive SSB symbols to be
measured within SMTC window duration.

When UE performs inter-frequency measurements without measurement gaps
in a TDD band, the following restrictions apply due to SS-RSRQ
measurement

\- UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS on SSB symbols to be
measured, RSSI measurement symbols, and on 1 data symbol before each
consecutive SSB to be measured/RSSI symbols and 1 data symbol after each
consecutive SSB to be measured/RSSI symbols within SMTC window duration.

When TDD intra-band carrier aggregation is performed, the scheduling
restrictions due to one serving cell should also apply to all other
serving cells in the same band on the symbols that fully or partially
overlap with aforementioned restricted symbols.

##### 9.3.9.3.2 Scheduling availability of UE performing measurements with a different subcarrier spacing than PDSCH/PDCCH on FR1

For UE which do not support
*simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology-Inter-r16* \[14\] the following
restrictions apply due to SS-RSRP/RSRQ/SINR measurement

\- If UE performs inter-frequency measurements without measurement gaps
in a TDD band, UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS or receive
PDCCH/PDSCH/TRS/CSI-RS for CQI on SSB symbols to be measured, and on 1
data symbol before each consecutive SSB symbols to be measured and 1
data symbol after each consecutive SSB symbols to be measured within
SMTC window duration.

\- If UE performs inter-frequency measurements without measurement gaps
in a FDD band, UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS or receive
PDCCH/PDSCH/TRS/CSI-RS for CQI on all symbols within SMTC window
duration.

When intra-band carrier aggregation is performed, the scheduling
restrictions due to a given serving cell should also apply to all other
serving cells in the same band on the symbols that fully or partially
overlap with aforementioned restricted symbols.

##### 9.3.9.3.3 Scheduling availability of UE performing measurements on FR2

The following scheduling restriction applies due to SS-RSRP or SS-SINR
measurement on an FR2 inter-frequency cell

The UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS or receive
PDCCH/PDSCH/TRS/CSI-RS for CQI on SSB symbols to be measured, and on 1
data symbol before each consecutive SSB symbols to be measured and 1
data symbol after each consecutive SSB symbols to be measured within
SMTC window duration.

The following scheduling restriction applies to SS-RSRQ measurement on
an FR2 inter-frequency cell

\- The UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS or receive
PDCCH/PDSCH/TRS/CSI-RS for CQI on SSB symbols to be measured, RSSI
measurement symbols, and on 1 data symbol before each consecutive SSB to
be measured/RSSI symbols and 1 data symbol after each consecutive SSB to
be measured/RSSI symbols within SMTC window duration*.*

When intra-band carrier aggregation is performed, the scheduling
restrictions due to a given serving cell should also apply to all other
serving cells in the same band on the symbols that fully or partially
overlap with aforementioned restricted symbols.

If following conditions are met:

\- The UE has been notified about system information update through
paging,

\- The gap between the UE's reception of PDCCH that UE monitors in the
Type 2-PDCCH CSS set that notifies system information update, and the
PDCCH that UE monitors in the Type0-PDCCH CSS set, is greater than 2
slots

For the SSB and CORESET for RMSI scheduling multiplexing patterns 3, the
UE is expected to receive the PDCCH that the UE monitors in the
Type0-PDCCH CSS set, and the corresponding PDSCH, on SSB symbols to be
measured; and

For the SSB and CORESET for RMSI scheduling multiplexing patterns 2, the
UE is expected to receive PDSCH that corresponds to the PDCCH that the
UE monitors in the Type0-PDCCH CSS set, on SSB symbols to be measured.

##### 9.3.9.3.4 Scheduling availability of UE performing measurements on FR1 or FR2 in case of FR1-FR2 inter-band CA

There are no scheduling restrictions on FR1 serving cell(s) due to
measurements performed on FR2 serving cell frequency layer.

There are no scheduling restrictions on FR2 serving cell(s) due to
measurements performed on FR1 serving cell frequency layer.

9.3A NR inter-frequency measurements in carrier frequencies with CCA
--------------------------------------------------------------------

### 9.3A.1 Introduction

The requirements in clause 9.3A apply for inter-frequency measurements
on a carrier frequency with CCA. A measurement is defined as an SSB
based inter-frequency measurement provided it is not defined as an
intra-frequency measurement according to clause 9.2A.The UE shall be
able to identify new inter-frequency cells in carrier frequencies with
CCA and perform SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ, and SS-SINR measurements of identified
inter-frequency cells if carrier frequency information is provided by
PCell or PSCell, even if no explicit neighbour list with physical layer
cell identities is provided.

SSB based measurements are configured along with a measurement timing
configuration (SMTC) per carrier, which provides periodicity, duration
and offset information on a window of up to 5ms where the measurements
on the configured inter-frequency carrier are to be performed. For
inter-frequency connected mode measurements, one measurement window
periodicity may be configured per inter-frequency measurement object.

When measurement gaps are needed, the UE is not expected to detect SSB
on an inter-frequency measurement object which start earlier than the
gap starting time + switching time, nor detect SSB which end later than
the gap end -- switching time.

In the requirements of clause 9.3A, the term SMTC occasion not available
at the UE refers to when the SMTC contains SSBs configured by gNB in a
cell on a carrier frequency subject to CCA, but *N* candidate SSB
positions for the same SS/PBCH block index within the discovery burst
transmission window are not available at the UE due to DL CCA failures
at gNB during the corresponding evaluation or measurement period, where:

\- For the cell detection procedure: *N* is at least one candidate SSB
position (NOTE: the one candidate SSB position for the cell detection
shall not be impacted by the set of candidate SSB positions which are
already being measured by the UE within the current measurement period
of the on-going measurements), and

\- For other procedures in clause 9.3A: *N* are the first two successive
candidate SSB positions when two or more candidate SSB positions are
configured for this SSB index in one discovery burst transmission
window, otherwise N is one candidate SSB position;

otherwise the SMTC occasion is considered as available at the UE.

### 9.3A.2 Requirements applicability

The requirements in clause 9.3A apply, provided:

\- The cell being identified or measured is detectable.

An inter-frequency CCA cell shall be considered detectable when for each
relevant SSB:

\- SS-RSRP related side conditions given in clause 10.1.28,

\- SS-RSRQ related side conditions given in clause 10.1.30,

\- SS-SINR related side conditions given in clause 10.1.32,

\- SSB\_RP and SSB Ês/Iot according to Annex B.2.9.

### 9.3A.3 Number of cells and number of SSB

#### 9.3A.3.1 Requirements 

For each inter-frequency layer, during each layer 1 measurement period,
the UE shall be capable of performing SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ, and SS-SINR
measurements for at least:

\- 4 identified cells, and

\- 7 SSBs with different SSB indexes and/or PCI on the inter-frequency
layer.

### 9.3A.4 Inter-frequency cell identification

When measurement gaps are provided, or the UE supports capability of
conducting such measurements without gaps, the UE shall be able to
identify a new detectable inter-frequency cell within
T~identify\_inter\_cca\_without\_index~ if UE is not indicated to report
SSB based RRM measurement result with the associated SSB index
(*reportQuantityRsIndexes* or *maxNrofRSIndexesToReport* is not
configured). Otherwise UE shall be able to identify a new detectable
inter-frequency cell, in carrier frequencies with CCA, within
T~identify\_inter\_cca\_with\_index~. The UE shall be able to identify a
new detectable inter-frequency SS block, in carrier frequencies with
CCA, of an already detected cell within
T~identify\_inter\_cca\_without\_index.~

T~identify\_inter\_cca\_without\_index~ = (T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_inter\_cca~
+ T ~SSB\_measurement\_period\_inter\_cca~) ms

T~identify\_inter\_cca\_with\_index~ = (T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_inter\_cca~ + T
~SSB\_measurement\_period\_inter\_cca~ +
T~SSB\_time\_index\_inter\_cca~) ms

Where:

T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_inter\_cca~: it is the time period used in PSS/SSS
detection given in table 9.3A.4-1.

T~SSB\_time\_index\_inter\_cca~: it is the time period used to acquire
the index of the SSB being measured given in table 9.3A.4-2.

T ~SSB\_measurement\_period\_inter\_cca~: equal to a measurement period
of SSB based measurement given in table 9.3A.5-1. CSSF~inter~ : it is a
carrier specific scaling factor and is determined according to
CSSF~within\_gap,i~ in clause 9.1.5.2 for measurement conducted within
measurement gaps.

Table 9.3A.4-1: Time period for PSS/SSS detection

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Condition ^NOTE1,2,3,4^          | T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_inter\_cca~     |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | max(600ms, (8+L~PSS/SSS,gaps~) x |
|                                  | max(MGRP, SMTC period)) x        |
|                                  | CSSF~inter~                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                | max(600ms,                       |
|                                  | ceil((8+L~PSS/SSS,gaps~)x1.5) x  |
|                                  | max(MGRP, SMTC period, DRX       |
|                                  | cycle)) x CSSF~inter~            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle \> 320ms               | (8+L~PSS/SSS,gaps~) x DRX cycle  |
|                                  | x CSSF~inter~                    |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: DRX or non DRX           |                                  |
| requirements apply according to  |                                  |
| the conditions described in      |                                  |
| clause 3.6.1                     |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: In EN-DC operation, the  |                                  |
| parameters, timers and           |                                  |
| scheduling requests referred to  |                                  |
| in clause 3.6.1 are for the      |                                  |
| secondary cell group. The DRX    |                                  |
| cycle is the DRX cycle of the    |                                  |
| secondary cell group.            |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 3: When DRX is not          |                                  |
| configured, L~PSS/SSS,gaps~ is   |                                  |
| the number of SMTC occasions not |                                  |
| available at the UE during       |                                  |
| *                                |                                  |
| *T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_inter\_cca~,** |                                  |
| for PSS/SSS detection, where     |                                  |
| L~PSS/SSS,gaps~ ≤                |                                  |
| L~PSS/SSS,gaps,max.~ When DRX is |                                  |
| configured, L~PSS/SSS,gaps~ is   |                                  |
| the number of DRX cycles in      |                                  |
| which at least one SMTC occasion |                                  |
| is not available at the UE       |                                  |
| during                           |                                  |
| *                                |                                  |
| *T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_inter\_cca~,** |                                  |
| for PSS/SSS detection, where     |                                  |
| L~PSS/SSS,gaps~ ≤                |                                  |
| L~PSS/SSS,gaps,max.~ When        |                                  |
| configured with DRX, the UE is   |                                  |
| not required to determine the    |                                  |
| availability of SMTC occasions   |                                  |
| more frequent than once per DRX  |                                  |
| cycle. When configured with      |                                  |
| measurement gaps, the UE is not  |                                  |
| required to determine the        |                                  |
| availability of SMTC occasions   |                                  |
| more frequent than once during   |                                  |
| MGRP. FFS: The UE is not         |                                  |
| required to determine the        |                                  |
| availability of SMTC occasions   |                                  |
| more frequent than what is       |                                  |
| required by CSSF~inter~.         |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 4: L~PSS/SSS,gaps,max~ = 12 |                                  |
| for max(DRX cycle, SMTC period,  |                                  |
| MGRP) ≤ 40 ms                    |                                  |
| L~PSS/SSS,gaps,max~ = 8 for 40   |                                  |
| ms \< max(DRX cycle, SMTC        |                                  |
| period, MGRP) ≤ 320 ms, and      |                                  |
| L~PSS/SSS,gaps,max~ = 5 for DRX  |                                  |
| cycle \> 320 ms.                 |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

Upon exceeding L~PSS/SSS,gaps,max~, the UE is not required to meet the
corresponding PSS/SSS detection requirement. The requirements apply
provided that any two closest SMTC occasions available at the UE for the
measurement shall be separated by no more than the maximum time
requirement for the cell to remain known.

Table 9.3A.4-2: Time period for time index detection

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Condition ^NOTE1,2,3,4^          | T~SSB\_time\_index\_inter\_cca~  |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | max(120ms, (3+ L~ind,gaps~) x    |
|                                  | max(MGRP, SMTC period)) x        |
|                                  | CSSF~inter~                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                | max(120ms, ceil((3+ L~ind,gaps~) |
|                                  | x 1.5) x max(MGRP, SMTC period,  |
|                                  | DRX cycle)) x CSSF~inter~        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle \> 320ms               | (3 + L~ind,gaps~) x DRX cycle x  |
|                                  | CSSF~inter~                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: DRX or non DRX           |                                  |
| requirements apply according to  |                                  |
| the conditions described in      |                                  |
| clause 3.6.1                     |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: In EN-DC operation, the  |                                  |
| parameters, timers and           |                                  |
| scheduling requests referred to  |                                  |
| in clause 3.6.1 are for the      |                                  |
| secondary cell group. The DRX    |                                  |
| cycle is the DRX cycle of the    |                                  |
| secondary cell group.            |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 3: When DRX is not          |                                  |
| configured, L~ind,gaps~ is the   |                                  |
| number of SMTC occasions not     |                                  |
| available at the UE during       |                                  |
| **T                              |                                  |
| ~SSB\_time\_index\_inter\_cca~** |                                  |
| for time index identification,   |                                  |
| where L~ind,gaps~ ≤              |                                  |
| L~ind,gaps,max~. When DRX is     |                                  |
| configured, L~ind,gaps~ is the   |                                  |
| number of DRX cycles in which at |                                  |
| least one SMTC occasion is not   |                                  |
| available at the UE during       |                                  |
| **T                              |                                  |
| ~SSB\_time\_index\_inter\_cca~** |                                  |
| for time index identification,   |                                  |
| where L~ind,gaps~ ≤              |                                  |
| L~ind,gaps,max~. When configured |                                  |
| with DRX, the UE is not required |                                  |
| to determine the availability of |                                  |
| SMTC occasions more frequent     |                                  |
| than once per DRX cycle. When    |                                  |
| configured with measurement      |                                  |
| gaps, the UE is not required to  |                                  |
| determine the availability of    |                                  |
| SMTC occasions more frequent     |                                  |
| than once during MGRP. FFS: The  |                                  |
| UE is not required to determine  |                                  |
| the availability of SMTC         |                                  |
| occasions more frequent than     |                                  |
| what is required by CSSF~inter~. |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 4: L~ind,gaps,max~ = 5 for  |                                  |
| max(DRX cycle, SMTC period,      |                                  |
| MGRP) ≤ 40 ms, L~ind,gaps,max~ = |                                  |
| 3 for 40 ms \< max(DRX cycle,    |                                  |
| SMTC period, MGRP) ≤ 320 ms, and |                                  |
| L~ind,gaps,max~ = 2 for DRX      |                                  |
| cycle \> 320 ms.                 |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

The UE shall restart the time index detection upon exceeding
L~ind,gaps,max~. The requirements apply provided that any two closest
SMTC occasions available at the UE for the measurement shall be
separated by no more than the maximum time requirement for the cell to
remain known.

### 9.3A.5 Inter-frequency measurements

When measurement gaps are provided for inter-frequency measurements in
carrier frequencies with CCA, or the UE supports capability of
conducting such measurements without gaps, the UE physical layer shall
be capable of reporting SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ and SS-SINR measurements to
higher layers with measurement accuracy as specified in clauses 10.1.28,
10.1.30, 10.1.32, respectively, as shown in table 9.3A.5-1:

Table 9.3A.5-1: Measurement period for inter-frequency measurements with
gaps

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Condition ^NOTE1,2,3,4^          | T                                |
|                                  | ~SSB\_                           |
|                                  | measurement\_period\_inter\_cca~ |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | max(200ms, (8+ L~meas~) x        |
|                                  | max(MGRP, SMTC period)) x        |
|                                  | CSSF~inter~                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                | max(200ms, ceil((8+ L~meas~) x   |
|                                  | 1.5) x max(MGRP, SMTC period,    |
|                                  | DRX cycle)) x CSSF~inter~        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle \> 320ms               | (8+ L~meas~) x DRX cycle x       |
|                                  | CSSF~inter~                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: DRX or non DRX           |                                  |
| requirements apply according to  |                                  |
| the conditions described in      |                                  |
| clause 3.6.1                     |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: In EN-DC operation, the  |                                  |
| parameters, timers and           |                                  |
| scheduling requests referred to  |                                  |
| in clause 3.6.1 are for the      |                                  |
| secondary cell group. The DRX    |                                  |
| cycle is the DRX cycle of the    |                                  |
| secondary cell group.            |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 3: When DRX is not          |                                  |
| configured, L~meas~ is the       |                                  |
| number of SMTC occasions not     |                                  |
| available at the UE during T     |                                  |
| ~SSB                             |                                  |
| \_measurement\_period\_NR\_cca~, |                                  |
| for inter-frequency measurements |                                  |
| with gaps, where L~meas~ ≤       |                                  |
| L~meas,max~. When DRX is         |                                  |
| configured, L~meas~ is the       |                                  |
| number of DRX cycles in which at |                                  |
| least one SMTC occasion is not   |                                  |
| available at the UE during T     |                                  |
| ~SSB                             |                                  |
| \_measurement\_period\_NR\_cca~, |                                  |
| for inter-frequency measurements |                                  |
| with gaps, where L~meas~ ≤       |                                  |
| L~meas,max~. When configured     |                                  |
| with DRX, the UE is not required |                                  |
| to determine the availability of |                                  |
| SMTC occasions more frequent     |                                  |
| than once per DRX cycle. When    |                                  |
| configured with measurement      |                                  |
| gaps, the UE is not required to  |                                  |
| determine the availability of    |                                  |
| SMTC occasions more frequent     |                                  |
| than once during MGRP. FFS: The  |                                  |
| UE is not required to determine  |                                  |
| the availability of SMTC         |                                  |
| occasions more frequent than     |                                  |
| what is required by CSSF~inter~. |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 4: L~meas,max~ = 12 for     |                                  |
| max(DRX cycle, SMTC period,      |                                  |
| MGRP) ≤ 40 ms, L~meas,max~ = 8   |                                  |
| for 40 ms \< max(DRX cycle, SMTC |                                  |
| period, MGRP) ≤ 320 ms, and      |                                  |
| L~meas,max~ = 5 for DRX cycle \> |                                  |
| 320 ms.                          |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

The UE shall restart the measurement upon exceeding L~meas,max~. The
requirements apply provided that any two closest SMTC occasions
available at the UE for the measurement shall be separated by no more
than the maximum time requirement for the cell to remain known.

The UE shall stop the measurement attempts on the SSB of a cell and
perform the detection procedure again, like for any other SSB, when the
following conditions are met:

-   L~meas~ \> L~meas,max~, and

-   The time period of unsuccessful measurement attempts exceeds the
    maximum time required for the cell to remain known as defined in
    clause 9.3A.6.3.

### 9.3A.6 NR Inter-frequency measurements reporting requirements

#### 9.3A.6.1 Periodic Reporting

Reported SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ, and SS-SINR measurements contained in
periodically triggered measurement reports shall meet the requirements
in clauses 10.1.28, 10.1.30, and 10.1.32, respectively.

#### 9.3A.6.2 Event-triggered Periodic Reporting

Reported SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ, and SS-SINR measurements contained in event
triggered periodic measurement reports shall meet the requirements in
clauses 10.1.28, 10.1.30, and 10.1.32, respectively.

The first report in event triggered periodic measurement reporting shall
meet the requirements specified in clause 9.3A.6.3.

#### 9.3A.6.3 Event-triggered Reporting

Reported SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ, and SS-SINR measurements contained in event
triggered measurement reports shall meet the requirements in clauses
10.1.28, 10.1.30, and 10.1.32, respectively.

The UE shall not send any event triggered measurement reports, as long
as no reporting criteria are fulfilled.

The measurement reporting delay is defined as the time between an event
that will trigger a measurement report and the point when the UE starts
to transmit the measurement report over the air interface. This
requirement assumes that the measurement report is not delayed by other
RRC signalling on the DCCH. This measurement reporting delay excludes a
delay uncertainty resulted when inserting the measurement report to the
TTI of the uplink DCCH. The delay uncertainty is: 2 x TTI~DCCH~. This
measurement reporting delay excludes a delay which caused by no UL
resources for UE to send the measurement report, and all delays due to
UL CCA failures until the successful transmission of the report.

The event triggered measurement reporting delay, measured without L3
filtering shall be within T~identify\_inter\_cca\_without\_index~ if UE
is not indicated to report SSB based RRM measurement result with the
associated SSB index. Otherwise UE shall be able to identify a new
detectable inter-frequency cell within
T~identify\_inter\_cca\ \_with\_index~. Both
T~identify\_inter\_cca\ \_without\_index~ and
T~identify\_inter\_cca\ \_with\_index~ are defined in clause 9.3A.4.
When L3 filtering is used an additional delay can be expected.

A cell is detectable only if at least one SSB measured from the cell
being configured remains detectable during the time period
T~identify\_inter\_cca\ \_without\_index~ or
T~identify\_inter\_cca\ \_with\_index~ defined in clause 9.3A.4. If a
cell which has been detectable at least for the time period
T~identify\_inter\_cca\ \_without\_index~ or
T~identify\_inter\_cca\ \_with\_index~ defined in clause 9.3A.4 becomes
undetectable for a period ≤ 8 seconds and then the cell becomes
detectable again with the same spatial reception parameter and then
triggers the measurement report as per TS 38.331 \[2\], the event
triggered measurement reporting delay shall be less than
T~SSB\_measurement\_period\_inter\_cca~ defined in clause 9.3A.5
provided the timing to that cell has not changed more than ±
3200/$2^{µ}$ Tc while measurement gap has not been available and the L3
filtering has not been used, where *µ* is the SCS configuration as
defined in clause 4.2 of TS 38.211 \[3\]. When L3 filtering is used an
additional delay can be expected.

### 9.3A.8 Inter-frequency RSSI measurements

An RSSI measurement is defined as an inter-frequency measurement
provided that the RSSI measurement bandwidth is not contained within the
current carrier bandwidth of the UE.

The UE physical layer shall be capable of performing the RSSI
measurements, defined in TS 38.215 \[4\] on one or more inter-frequency
carriers operating with CCA, TS 37.213 \[33\], if the carrier(s) are
indicated by higher layers \[2\], and report the RSSI measurements to
higher layers. The UE physical layer shall provide to higher layers a
single RSSI sample for each OFDM symbol within each configured RSSI
measurement duration \[2\] occurring with a configured RSSI measurement
timing configuration periodicity \[2\], *rmtc-Periodicity*. The
requirements apply if *rmtc-SubframeOffset* \[2\] is configured.

Table 9.3A.8-1: Measurement period for inter-frequency RSSI measurements
with gaps

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Condition ^NOTE1,2,3,4^          | T                                |
|                                  | ~RSSI\_                          |
|                                  | measurement\_period\_inter\_cca~ |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | max(*reportInterval*,            |
|                                  | max(*rmtc-Periodicity, MGRP*) x  |
|                                  | CSSF~inter~)                     |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX                              | max(*reportInterval*,            |
|                                  | max(*rmtc-Periodicity*, MGRP,DRX |
|                                  | cycle) x CSSF~inter~)            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: DRX or non DRX           |                                  |
| requirements apply according to  |                                  |
| the conditions described in      |                                  |
| clause 3.6.1                     |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: CSSF~inter~ is a carrier |                                  |
| specific scaling factor and is   |                                  |
| determined according to          |                                  |
| CSSF~within\_gap,i~ in clause    |                                  |
| 9.1.5.2 for measurement          |                                  |
| conducted within measurement     |                                  |
| gaps.                            |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

If the UE requires measurement gaps to perform inter-frequency
measurements, a single measurement gap pattern is used for all
concurrent inter-frequency measurements, including inter-frequency RSSI
measurements. The RSSI measurement duration and the measurement gap
should be aligned, and the following additional condition should be
fulfilled:

\- Entire RSSI measurement duration should be contained in the
measurement gap.

The RSSI measurement performed and reported according to this clause
shall meet the RSSI measurement accuracy requirement in Clause
10.1.34.2. The reported RSSI measurement values contained in measurement
reports shall be based on the measurement report mapping requirements
specified in Clause 10.1.34.3.

### 9.3A.9 Inter-frequency channel occupancy measurements

The UE shall be capable of estimating the channel occupancy on one or
more carrier frequencies indicated by higher layers \[2\], based on RSSI
samples provided by the physical layer. The requirements apply if
*rmtc-SubframeOffset* \[2\] is configured.

Table 9.3A.9-1: Measurement period for inter-frequency Channel Occupancy
measurements with gaps

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Condition ^NOTE1,2,3,4^          | T                                |
|                                  | ~CO\_                            |
|                                  | measurement\_period\_inter\_cca~ |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | max(*reportInterval*,            |
|                                  | max(*rmtc-Periodicity, MGRP*) x  |
|                                  | CSSF~inter~)                     |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX                              | max(*reportInterval*,            |
|                                  | max(*rmtc-Periodicity*, MGRP,DRX |
|                                  | cycle) x CSSF~inter~)            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: DRX or non DRX           |                                  |
| requirements apply according to  |                                  |
| the conditions described in      |                                  |
| clause 3.6.1                     |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: CSSF~inter~ is a carrier |                                  |
| specific scaling factor and is   |                                  |
| determined according to          |                                  |
| CSSF~within\_gap,i~ in clause    |                                  |
| 9.1.5.2 for measurement          |                                  |
| conducted within measurement     |                                  |
| gaps.                            |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

If the UE requires measurement gaps to perform inter-frequency
measurements, a single measurement gap pattern is used for all
concurrent inter-frequency measurements, including inter-frequency
channel occupancy measurements. The RSSI measurement duration used for
channel occupancy measurement and the measurement gap should be aligned,
and the following additional condition should be fulfilled:

\- Entire RSSI measurement duration should be contained in the
measurement gap.

The channel occupancy measurement performed and reported according to
this clause shall meet the channel occupancy measurement accuracy
requirements in Clause 10.1.35.2. The reported channel occupancy
measurement values contained in measurement reports shall be based on
the measurement reporting range specified in TS 38.331 \[2\].

9.4 Inter-RAT measurements
--------------------------

### 9.4.1 Introduction

The requirements in this clause are specified for NR−E-UTRAN FDD and
NR−E-UTRAN TDD measurements and are applicable without an explicit
E-UTRAN neighbour cell list containing physical layer cell identities,
for a UE:

\- in RRC\_CONNECTED state, and

\- configured

\- with SA or NR-DC operation mode or configured in NE-DC operation mode
by PCell with NR−E-UTRAN FDD or TDD measurement (RSRP, RSRQ, RS-SINR,
RSTD, or E-CID RSRP and RSRQ) on E-UTRA non-serving frequency carrier,
or

\- with SA operation mode on NR carrier frequencies with CCA by PCell
with NR−E-UTRAN FDD or TDD measurement (RSRP, RSRQ, RS-SINR) on E-UTRA
non-serving frequency carrier, and

\- configured with an appropriate measurement gap pattern according to
Table 9.1.2-3.

When the UE is in NE-DC operation mode and an NR−E-UTRAN FDD or TDD
measurement (RSRP, RSRQ, RS-SINR, or E-CID RSRP and RSRQ) configured by
NR PCell is on a E-UTRA serving frequency carrier, then the
corresponding E-UTRA intra-frequency measurements requirements specified
in clause 8.19 of TS 36.133 \[15\] shall apply.

When *highSpeedMeasFlag-r16* is configured but UE does not support
either *measurementEnhancement-r16 or*
*interRAT-MeasurementEnhancement-r16*, the UE is not required to meet
the requirements specified in Table 9.4.2.3-2 and Table 9.4.3.3-2.

*Editor's note: the exact signalling names in the above brackets and in
Table 9.4.2.3-2 and Table 9.4.3.3-2 are subject to RAN2 definitions and
the brackets shall be replaced by the correct signalling names according
to RAN2 specification.*

Parameter T~Inter1~ used in inter-RAT requirements in clause 9.4 is
specified in Table 9.4.1-1.

Table 9.4.1-1: Minimum available time for inter-RAT measurements

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Gap Pattern Id | MeasurementGap | Measurement    | Minimum        |
|                | Length (MGL,   | Gap Repetition | available time |
|                | ms)            | Period         | for            |
|                |                |                | i              |
|                |                | (MGRP, ms)     | nter-frequency |
|                |                |                | and inter-RAT  |
|                |                |                | measurements   |
|                |                |                | during 480 ms  |
|                |                |                | period         |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | (Tinter1, ms)  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 0              | 6              | 40             | 60             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 1              | 6              | 80             | 30             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 2              | 3              | 40             | 24^Note\ 1^    |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 3              | 3              | 80             | 12^Note\ 1^    |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 4              | 6              | 20             | 120 ^Note\ 1^  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 6              | 4              | 20             | 72             |
|                |                |                | ^Note\ 1,3,6^  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7              | 4              | 40             | 36             |
|                |                |                | ^Note\ 1,4,6^  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8              | 4              | 80             | 1              |
|                |                |                | 8^Note\ 1,5,6^ |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 10             | 3              | 20             | 48 ^Note\ 1^   |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| NOTE 1: When   |                |                |                |
| determining UE |                |                |                |
| requirements   |                |                |                |
| using Tinter1  |                |                |                |
| for gap        |                |                |                |
| pattern IDs 2, |                |                |                |
| 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, |                |                |                |
| 10, Tinter1 =  |                |                |                |
| 60 for gap     |                |                |                |
| pattern IDs 2, |                |                |                |
| 4, 6, 7, 10,   |                |                |                |
| and Tinter1 =  |                |                |                |
| 30 for gap     |                |                |                |
| pattern IDs 3  |                |                |                |
| and 8 shall be |                |                |                |
| used.          |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 2:        |                |                |                |
| Measurement    |                |                |                |
| gaps pattern   |                |                |                |
| configurations |                |                |                |
| applicability  |                |                |                |
| is as          |                |                |                |
| specified in   |                |                |                |
| Table 9.1.2-1. |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 3: When   |                |                |                |
| this gap       |                |                |                |
| pattern is     |                |                |                |
| used, the      |                |                |                |
| T~inter~ for   |                |                |                |
| E-UTRA         |                |                |                |
| i              |                |                |                |
| nter-frequency |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| is 48 ms       |                |                |                |
| corresponding  |                |                |                |
| to the first 3 |                |                |                |
| ms of the 4 ms |                |                |                |
| gap.           |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 4: When   |                |                |                |
| this gap       |                |                |                |
| pattern is     |                |                |                |
| used, the      |                |                |                |
| T~inter~ for   |                |                |                |
| E-UTRA         |                |                |                |
| i              |                |                |                |
| nter-frequency |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| is 24 ms       |                |                |                |
| corresponding  |                |                |                |
| to the first 3 |                |                |                |
| ms of the 4 ms |                |                |                |
| gap.           |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 5: When   |                |                |                |
| this gap       |                |                |                |
| pattern is     |                |                |                |
| used, the      |                |                |                |
| T~inter~ for   |                |                |                |
| E-UTRA         |                |                |                |
| i              |                |                |                |
| nter-frequency |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| is 12 ms       |                |                |                |
| corresponding  |                |                |                |
| to the first 3 |                |                |                |
| ms of the 4 ms |                |                |                |
| gap.           |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 6: This   |                |                |                |
| gap pattern is |                |                |                |
| applicable for |                |                |                |
| E-UTRA         |                |                |                |
| i              |                |                |                |
| nter-frequency |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| only if gap    |                |                |                |
| based NR       |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| are also       |                |                |                |
| configured.    |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

*A UE configured with gap pattern ID 2, 3 or 10 shall be able to detect
a target cell, provided that*

\- the E-UTRA subframe \#0 or \#5 of the target E-UTRAN cell begins not
earlier than 500 μs from the start of the measurement gap, and

\- the E-UTRA subframe \#0 or \#5 of the target E-UTRAN cell ends not
later than 500 μs before the end of the measurement gap in case of FDD
and not later than 750 μs before the end of measurement gap in case of
TDD.

*A UE configured with gap pattern ID 6, 7 or 8 shall be able to detect a
target cell, provided that*

\- the E-UTRA subframe \#0 or \#5 of the target E-UTRAN cell begins not
earlier than 500 μs from the start of the measurement gap, and

\- the E-UTRA subframe \#0 or \#5 of the target E-UTRAN cell ends no
later than 1500 μs before the end of the measurement gap in case of FDD
and no later than 1750 μs before the end of measurement gap in case of
TDD.

### 9.4.2 NR − E-UTRAN FDD measurements

#### 9.4.2.1 Introduction

The requirements are applicable for NR−E-UTRAN FDD RSRP, RSRQ, and
RS-SINR measurements.

In the requirements, an E-UTRAN FDD cell is considered to be detectable
when:

\- RSRP related conditions in the accuracy requirements in clause 10.2.2
are fulfilled for a corresponding Band, together with the corresponding
side conditions in Annex B.2.3 and Annex B.3.3 of TS 36.133 \[15\],

\- RSRQ related conditions in the accuracy requirements in clause 10.2.3
are fulfilled for a corresponding Band, together with the corresponding
side conditions in Annex B.2.3 and Annex B.3.3 of TS 36.133 \[15\],

\- RS-SINR related conditions in the accuracy requirements in clause
10.2.5 are fulfilled for a corresponding Band, together with the
corresponding side conditions in Annex B.2.3 and Annex B.3.19 of TS
36.133 \[15\].

#### 9.4.2.2 Requirements when no DRX is used

When the UE requires measurement gaps to identify and measure inter-RAT
cells and an appropriate measurement gap pattern is scheduled, or the UE
supports capability of conducting such measurements without gaps, the UE
shall be able to identify a new detectable FDD cell within
T~Identify,\ E-UTRAN\ FDD~ according to the following expression:

$T_{Identify,\ \ E - UTRAN\ FDD} = T_{\text{BasicIdentify}} \bullet \frac{480}{T_{Inter1}} \bullet \text{CSSF}_{\text{interRAT}}\text{\ \ \ \ \ \ }\text{ms}$,

where:

T~BasicIdentify~ = 480 ms,

T~Inter1~ is defined in clause 9.4.1,

CSSF~interRAT~ = CSSF~within\_gap,i~ is the scaling factor for the
measured inter-RAT E-UTRA carrier *i* which is calculated as specified
in clause 9.1.5.2.

Identification of a cell shall include detection of the cell and
additionally performing a single measurement with measurement period of
T~Measure,\ E-UTRAN\ FDD~ defined in Table 9.4.2.2-1.

**Table 9.4.2.2-1:** M**easurement period and measurement bandwidth**

  ----------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------
  **Configuration**                         **Physical Layer Measurement period: T~Measure,\ E-UTRAN\ FDD~ \[ms\]**   **Measurement bandwidth \[RB\]**
  0                                         480 x CSSF~interRAT~                                                      6
  1 (Note 1)                                240 x CSSF~interRAT~                                                      50
  NOTE 1: This configuration is optional.                                                                             
  ----------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------

When measurement gaps are scheduled for E-UTRAN FDD inter-RAT
measurements, or the UE supports capability of conducting such
measurements without gaps, the UE physical layer shall be capable of
reporting RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR measurements to higher layers with
measurement period **T~Measure,\ E-UTRAN\ FDD~** given by table
9.4.2.2-1.

The UE shall be capable of identifying and performing NR -- E-UTRAN FDD
RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR measurements of at least 4 identified E-UTRAN
FDD cells per E-UTRA FDD carrier frequency layer during each layer 1
measurement period, for up to 7 E-UTRA FDD carrier frequency layers.

If higher layer filtering is used, an additional cell identification
delay can be expected.

The NR -- E-UTRAN FDD RSRP measurement accuracy for all measured cells
shall be as specified in clause 10.2.2. The NR -- E-UTRAN FDD RSRQ
measurement accuracy for all measured cells shall be as specified in
clause 10.2.3. The NR -- E-UTRAN FDD RS-SINR measurement accuracy for
all measured cells shall be as specified in clause 10.2.5.

#### 9.4.2.3 Requirements when DRX is used

When DRX is in use and measurement gaps are configured, the UE shall be
able to identify a new detectable E-UTRAN FDD cell within
T~Identify,\ E-UTRAN\ FDD~ specified in Table 9.4.2.3-1. When
*highSpeedMeasFlag-r16* is configured and UE supports the enhanced
inter-RAT E-UTRAN measurement requirements, the UE shall be able to
identify a new detectable E-UTRAN FDD cell within
T~Identify,\ E-UTRAN\ FDD~ specified in Table 9.4.2.3-2.

Table 9.4.2.3-1: Requirement to identify a newly detectable E-UTRAN FDD
cell

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| **DRX cycle length   | **T~Iden             |                      |
| (s)**                | tify,\ E-UTRAN\ FDD~ |                      |
|                      | (s) (DRX cycles)**   |                      |
+======================+======================+======================+
|                      | Gap period = 40 ms,  | Gap period = 80 ms   |
|                      | 20 ms                |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| ≤0.16                | Non-DRX requirements | Non-DRX requirements |
|                      | in clause 9.4.2.2    | in clause 9.4.2.2    |
|                      | apply                | apply                |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 0.256                | 5.12\*               | 7.68\*               |
|                      | CSSF~interRAT~       | CSSF~interRAT~       |
|                      | (20\*CSSF~interRAT~) | (30\*CSSF~interRAT~) |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 0.32                 | 6.4\* CSSF~interRAT~ | 7.68\*               |
|                      | (20\*CSSF~interRAT~) | CSSF~interRAT~       |
|                      |                      | (24\*CSSF~interRAT~) |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 0.32\< DRX-cycle     | Note1                | Note1                |
| ≤10.24               | (20\*CSSF~interRAT~) | (20\*CSSF~interRAT~) |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| NOTE 1: The time     |                      |                      |
| depends on the DRX   |                      |                      |
| cycle length.        |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| NOTE 2:              |                      |                      |
| CSSF~interRAT~ is as |                      |                      |
| defined in clause    |                      |                      |
| 9.4.2.2.             |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

Table 9.4.2.3-2: Requirement to identify a newly detectable E-UTRAN FDD
cell when *highSpeedMeasFlag-r16* is configured

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| DRX cycle length (s) | T~Iden               |                      |
|                      | tify,\ E-UTRAN\ FDD~ |                      |
|                      | (s) (DRX cycles)     |                      |
+======================+======================+======================+
|                      | Gap period = 40 ms,  | Gap period = 80 ms   |
|                      | 20 ms                |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| ≤0.16                | Non-DRX requirements | Non-DRX requirements |
|                      | in clause 9.4.2.2    | in clause 9.4.2.2    |
|                      | apply                | apply                |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 0.16\<DRx            | Note                 |                      |
| cycle\<=0.32         | 1                    |                      |
|                      | (15\*CSSF~interRAT~) |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 0.32\<DRx cycle \<=  | Note                 |                      |
| 0.64                 | 1                    |                      |
|                      | (10\*CSSF~interRAT~) |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| DRx cycle = 1.024    | Note                 | Note                 |
|                      | 1                    | 1                    |
|                      | (10\*CSSF~interRAT~) | (10\*CSSF~interRAT~) |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| DRx cycle = 1.28     | Note                 | Note                 |
|                      | 1(8\*CSSF~interRAT~) | 1(8\*CSSF~interRAT~) |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 1.28\< DRX-cycle     | Note1                | Note1                |
| ≤10.24               | (20\*CSSF~interRAT~) | (20\*CSSF~interRAT~) |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| NOTE 1: The time     |                      |                      |
| depends on the DRX   |                      |                      |
| cycle length.        |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| NOTE 2:              |                      |                      |
| CSSF~interRAT~ is as |                      |                      |
| defined in clause    |                      |                      |
| 9.4.2.2.             |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| NOTE 3: When         |                      |                      |
| *hi                  |                      |                      |
| ghSpeedMeasFlag-r16* |                      |                      |
| is configured, the   |                      |                      |
| requirements apply   |                      |                      |
| only to UE           |                      |                      |
| supporting either    |                      |                      |
| *measure             |                      |                      |
| mentEnhancement-r16* |                      |                      |
| or                   |                      |                      |
| *interRAT-Measurem   |                      |                      |
| entEnhancement-r16*. |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

When DRX is in use, the UE shall be capable of performing NR -- E-UTRAN
FDD RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR measurements of at least 4 identified
E-UTRAN FDD cells per E-UTRA FDD frequency layer during each layer 1
measurement period, for up to 7 E-UTRA FDD carrier frequency layers, and
the UE physical layer shall be capable of reporting NR -- E-UTRAN FDD
RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR measurements to higher layers with the
measurement period T~measure,\ E-UTRAN\ FDD~ specified in Table
9.4.2.3-2.

**Table 9.4.2.3-2: Requirement to measure E-UTRAN FDD cells**

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| **DRX cycle length (s)**         | **T~measure,\ E-UTRAN\ FDD~ (s)  |
|                                  | (DRX cycles)**                   |
+==================================+==================================+
| ≤0.08                            | Non-DRX requirements in clause   |
|                                  | 9.4.2.2 apply                    |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 0.08\< DRX-cycle ≤10.24          | Note1 (5\* CSSF~interRAT~)       |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The time depends on the  |                                  |
| DRX cycle length.                |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: CSSF~interRAT~ is as     |                                  |
| defined in clause 9.4.2.2.       |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

If higher layer filtering is used, an additional cell identification
delay can be expected.

The NR -- E-UTRAN FDD RSRP measurement accuracy for all measured cells
shall be as specified in clause 10.2.2. The NR -- E-UTRAN FDD RSRQ
measurement accuracy for all measured cells shall be as specified in
clause 10.2.3. The NR -- E-UTRAN FDD RS-SINR measurement accuracy for
all measured cells shall be as specified in clause 10.2.5.

#### 9.4.2.4 Measurement reporting requirements

##### 9.4.2.4.1 Periodic Reporting

The reported NR -- E-UTRAN FDD RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR measurements
contained in periodically triggered measurement reports shall meet the
requirements in clauses 10.2.2, 10.2.3, and 10.2.5, respectively.

##### 9.4.2.4.2 Event-Triggered Periodic Reporting

The reported NR -- E-UTRAN FDD RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR measurements
contained in event-triggered periodic measurement reports shall meet the
requirements in clauses 10.2.2, 10.2.3, and 10.2.5, respectively.

The first report in event-triggered periodic measurement reporting shall
meet the requirements specified in clause 9.4.2.4.3.

##### 9.4.2.4.3 Event-Triggered Reporting

The reported NR -- E-UTRAN FDD RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR measurements
contained in event-triggered measurement reports shall meet the
requirements in clauses 10.2.2, 10.2.3, and 10.2.5, respectively.

The UE shall not send any event-triggered measurement reports as long as
no reporting criteria are fulfilled.

The measurement reporting delay is defined as the time between an event
that will trigger a measurement report and the point when the UE starts
to transmit the measurement report over the air interface. This
requirement assumes that that the measurement report is not delayed by
other RRC signalling on the DCCH. This measurement reporting delay
excludes a delay uncertainty resulted when inserting the measurement
report to the TTI of the uplink DCCH. The delay uncertainty is: 2 x
TTI~DCCH~ where TTI~DCCH~ is the duration of subframe or slot or subslot
when the measurement report is transmitted on the PUSCH with subframe or
slot or subslot duration. This measurement reporting delay excludes a
delay which caused by no UL resources for UE to send the measurement
report.

The event triggered measurement reporting delay, measured without L3
filtering shall be less than T ~Identify,\ E-UTRAN\ FDD~ defined in
clauses 9.4.2.2 and 9.4.2.3 without DRX and with DRX, respectively. When
L3 filtering is used, an additional delay can be expected.

If a cell which has been detectable at least for the time period
T~Identify,\ E-UTRAN\ FDD~ becomes undetectable for a period ≤ 5 seconds
and then the cell becomes detectable again and triggers an event as per
TS 38.331 \[2\], the event triggered measurement reporting delay shall
be less than T~Measure,\ E-UTRAN\ FDD~ provided the timing to that cell
has not changed more than ± 50 Ts while measurement gap has not been
available and the L3 filter has not been used.

### 9.4.3 NR − E-UTRAN TDD measurements

#### 9.4.3.1 Introduction

The requirements are applicable for NR−E-UTRAN TDD RSRP, RSRQ, and
RS-SINR measurements.

In the requirements, an E-UTRAN TDD cell is considered to be detectable
when:

\- RSRP related conditions in the accuracy requirements in clause 10.2.2
are fulfilled for a corresponding Band, together with the corresponding
side conditions in Annex B.2.3 and Annex B.3.3 of TS 36.133 \[15\],

\- RSRQ related conditions in the accuracy requirements in clause 10.2.3
are fulfilled for a corresponding Band, together with the corresponding
side conditions in Annex B.2.3 and Annex B.3.3 of TS 36.133 \[15\],

RS-SINR related conditions in the accuracy requirements in clause 10.2.5
are fulfilled for a corresponding Band, together with the corresponding
side conditions in Annex B.2.3 and Annex B.3.19 of TS 36.133 \[15\].

#### 9.4.3.2 Requirements when no DRX is used

When the UE requires measurement gaps to identify and measure inter-RAT
cells and an appropriate measurement gap pattern is scheduled, or the UE
supports capability of conducting such measurements without gaps, the UE
shall be able to identify a new detectable TDD cell within
T~Identify,\ E-UTRAN\ TDD~ according to the following expression:

\- When configuration 0 or configuration 1 in Table 9.4.3.2-1 is
applied,

$T_{Identify,\ \ E - UTRAN\ TDD} = T_{\text{BasicIdentify}} \bullet \frac{480}{T_{Inter1}} \bullet \text{CSSF}_{\text{interRAT}}\text{\ \ \ \ \ \ }\text{ms}$,

> \- When configuration 2 or configuration 3 in Table 9.4.3.2-1 is
> applied,

$T_{Identify,\ \ E - UTRAN\ TDD} = T_{\text{BasicIdentify}} \bullet \frac{480}{T_{Inter1}} \bullet \text{CSSF}_{\text{interRAT}} + 240 \bullet \text{CSSF}_{\text{interRAT}}\text{\ \ \ \ \ \ }\text{ms}$,

where:

T~BasicIdentify~ = 480 ms,

T~Inter1~ is defined in clause 9.4.1,

CSSF~interRAT~ = CSSF~within\_gap,i~ is the scaling factor for the
measured inter-RAT E-UTRA carrier *i* which is calculated as specified
in clause 9.1.5.2.

Identification of a cell shall include detection of the cell and
additionally performing a single measurement with measurement period of
T~Measure,\ E-UTRAN\ TDD~ defined in Table 9.4.3.2-1.

Table 9.4.3.2-1: T~Measure,\ E-UTRAN\ TDD~ for different configurations

+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+
| Config  | Meas    | Number  | DwPTS | T~Me    |         |         |
| uration | urement | of      |       | asure,\ |         |         |
|         | ba      | UL/DL   |       |  E-UTRA |         |         |
|         | ndwidth | sub     |       | N\ TDD~ |         |         |
|         | (RB)    | -frames |       | (ms)    |         |         |
|         |         | per     |       |         |         |         |
|         |         | half    |       |         |         |         |
|         |         | frame   |       |         |         |         |
|         |         | (5 ms)  |       |         |         |         |
+=========+=========+=========+=======+=========+=========+=========+
|         |         | DL      | UL    | Normal  | E       |         |
|         |         |         |       | CP      | xtended |         |
|         |         |         |       |         | CP      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+
| 0       | 6       | 2       | 2     | ![      | ![]     | 480 x   |
|         |         |         |       | ](media | (media/ | CSSF~in |
|         |         |         |       | /image2 | image25 | terRAT~ |
|         |         |         |       | 4.wmf){ | .wmf){w |         |
|         |         |         |       | width=" | idth="0 |         |
|         |         |         |       | 0.55in" | .525in" |         |
|         |         |         |       | h       | h       |         |
|         |         |         |       | eight=" | eight=" |         |
|         |         |         |       | 0.2in"} | 0.2in"} |         |
+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+
| 1 (Note | 50      | 2       | 2     | ![      | ![]     | 240 x   |
| 1)      |         |         |       | ](media | (media/ | CSSF~in |
|         |         |         |       | /image2 | image25 | terRAT~ |
|         |         |         |       | 4.wmf){ | .wmf){w |         |
|         |         |         |       | width=" | idth="0 |         |
|         |         |         |       | 0.55in" | .525in" |         |
|         |         |         |       | h       | h       |         |
|         |         |         |       | eight=" | eight=" |         |
|         |         |         |       | 0.2in"} | 0.2in"} |         |
+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+
| 2       | 6       | 1       | 3     | ![      | ![]     | 720 x   |
|         |         |         |       | ](media | (media/ | CSSF~in |
|         |         |         |       | /image2 | image25 | terRAT~ |
|         |         |         |       | 4.wmf){ | .wmf){w |         |
|         |         |         |       | width=" | idth="0 |         |
|         |         |         |       | 0.55in" | .525in" |         |
|         |         |         |       | h       | h       |         |
|         |         |         |       | eight=" | eight=" |         |
|         |         |         |       | 0.2in"} | 0.2in"} |         |
+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+
| 3 (Note | 50      | 1       | 3     | ![      | ![]     | 480 x   |
| 1)      |         |         |       | ](media | (media/ | CSSF~in |
|         |         |         |       | /image2 | image25 | terRAT~ |
|         |         |         |       | 4.wmf){ | .wmf){w |         |
|         |         |         |       | width=" | idth="0 |         |
|         |         |         |       | 0.55in" | .525in" |         |
|         |         |         |       | h       | h       |         |
|         |         |         |       | eight=" | eight=" |         |
|         |         |         |       | 0.2in"} | 0.2in"} |         |
+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+
| NOTE 1: |         |         |       |         |         |         |
| This    |         |         |       |         |         |         |
| config  |         |         |       |         |         |         |
| uration |         |         |       |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |       |         |         |         |
| op      |         |         |       |         |         |         |
| tional. |         |         |       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |       |         |         |         |
| NOTE 2: |         |         |       |         |         |         |
| Void    |         |         |       |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+

When measurement gaps are scheduled for E-UTRAN TDD inter-RAT
measurements, or the UE supports capability of conducting such
measurements without gaps, the UE physical layer shall be capable of
reporting RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR measurements to higher layers with
measurement period T~measure,\ E-UTRAN\ TDD~ given by table 9.4.3.2-1.

The UE shall be capable of identifying and performing NR -- E-UTRAN TDD
RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR measurements of at least 4 identified E-UTRAN
TDD cells per E-UTRA TDD carrier frequency layer during each layer 1
measurement period, for up to 7 E-UTRA TDD carrier frequency layers.

If higher layer filtering is used, an additional cell identification
delay can be expected.

The NR -- E-UTRAN TDD RSRP measurement accuracy for all measured cells
shall be as specified in clause 10.2.2. The NR -- E-UTRAN TDD RSRQ
measurement accuracy for all measured cells shall be as specified in
clause 10.2.3. The NR -- E-UTRAN TDD RS-SINR measurement accuracy for
all measured cells shall be as specified in clause 10.2.5.

#### 9.4.3.3 Requirements when DRX is used

When DRX is in use and measurement gaps are configured, the UE shall be
able to identify a new detectable E-UTRAN TDD cell within
T~Identify,\ E-UTRAN\ TDD~ specified in Table 9.4.3.3-1. When
*highSpeedMeasFlag-r16* is configured and UE supports the enhanced
inter-RAT E-UTRAN measurement requirements, the UE shall be able to
identify a new detectable E-UTRAN TDD cell within
T~Identify,\ E-UTRAN\ TDD~ specified in Table 9.4.3.3-2.

Table 9.4.3.3-1: Requirement to identify a newly detectable E-UTRAN TDD
cell

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| DRX cycle length (s) | T~Iden               |                      |
|                      | tify,\ E-UTRAN\ TDD~ |                      |
|                      | (s) (DRX cycles)     |                      |
+======================+======================+======================+
|                      | Gap period = 40 ms,  | Gap period = 80 ms   |
|                      | 20 ms                |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| ≤0.16                | Non-DRX requirements | Non-DRX requirements |
|                      | in clause 9.4.3.2    | in clause 9.4.3.2    |
|                      | apply                | apply                |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 0.256                | 5.12\*               | 7.68\*               |
|                      | CSSF~interRAT~       | CSSF~interRAT~       |
|                      | (20\*CSSF~interRAT~) | (30\*CSSF~interRAT~) |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 0.32                 | 6.4\* CSSF~interRAT~ | 7.68\*               |
|                      | (20\*CSSF~interRAT~) | CSSF~interRAT~       |
|                      |                      | (24\*CSSF~interRAT~) |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 0.32\< DRX-cycle     | Note1                | Note1                |
| ≤10.24               | (20\*CSSF~interRAT~) | (20\*CSSF~interRAT~) |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| NOTE 1: The time     |                      |                      |
| depends on the DRX   |                      |                      |
| cycle length.        |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| NOTE 2:              |                      |                      |
| CSSF~interRAT~ is as |                      |                      |
| defined in clause    |                      |                      |
| 9.4.3.2.             |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

Table 9.4.3.3-2: Requirement to identify a newly detectable E-UTRAN TDD
cell when *highSpeedMeasFlag-r16* is configured

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| DRX cycle length (s) | T~Iden               |                      |
|                      | tify,\ E-UTRAN\ TDD~ |                      |
|                      | (s) (DRX cycles)     |                      |
+======================+======================+======================+
|                      | Gap period = 40 ms,  | Gap period = 80 ms   |
|                      | 20 ms                |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| ≤0.16                | Non-DRX requirements | Non-DRX requirements |
|                      | in clause 9.4.3.2    | in clause 9.4.3.2    |
|                      | apply                | apply                |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 0.16\<DRx            | Note                 |                      |
| cycle\<=0.32         | 1                    |                      |
|                      | (15\*CSSF~interRAT~) |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 0.32\<DRx cycle \<=  | Note                 |                      |
| 0.64                 | 1                    |                      |
|                      | (10\*CSSF~interRAT~) |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| DRx cycle = 1.024    | Note                 | Note                 |
|                      | 1                    | 1                    |
|                      | (10\*CSSF~interRAT~) | (10\*CSSF~interRAT~) |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| DRx cycle = 1.28     | Note                 | Note                 |
|                      | 1(8\*CSSF~interRAT~) | 1(8\*CSSF~interRAT~) |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 1.28\< DRX-cycle     | Note1                | Note1                |
| ≤10.24               | (20\*CSSF~interRAT~) | (20\*CSSF~interRAT~) |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| NOTE 1: The time     |                      |                      |
| depends on the DRX   |                      |                      |
| cycle length.        |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| NOTE 2:              |                      |                      |
| CSSF~interRAT~ is as |                      |                      |
| defined in clause    |                      |                      |
| 9.4.3.2.             |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| NOTE 3: When         |                      |                      |
| *hi                  |                      |                      |
| ghSpeedMeasFlag-r16* |                      |                      |
| is configured, the   |                      |                      |
| requirements apply   |                      |                      |
| only to UE           |                      |                      |
| supporting either    |                      |                      |
| *measure             |                      |                      |
| mentEnhancement-r16* |                      |                      |
| or                   |                      |                      |
| *interRAT-Measurem   |                      |                      |
| entEnhancement-r16.* |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

When DRX is in use, the UE shall be capable of performing NR -- E-UTRAN
TDD RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR measurements of at least 4 identified
E-UTRAN TDD cells per E-UTRA TDD frequency layer during each layer 1
measurement period, for up to 7 E-UTRA TDD carrier frequency layers, and
the UE physical layer shall be capable of reporting NR -- E-UTRAN TDD
RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR measurements to higher layers with the
measurement period T~measure,\ E-UTRAN\ TDD~ specified in Table
9.4.3.3-2.

Table 9.4.3.3-2: Requirement to measure E-UTRAN TDD cells

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle length (s)             | T~measure,\ E-UTRAN\ TDD~ (s)    |
|                                  | (DRX cycles)                     |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| ≤0.08                            | Non-DRX Requirements in clause   |
|                                  | 9.4.3.2 apply                    |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 0.128                            | For configuration 2 ^Note3^,     |
|                                  | non-DRX requirements in clause   |
|                                  | 9.4.3.2 apply,                   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Otherwise: Note1                 |
|                                  | (5\*CSSF~interRAT~)              |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 0.128\<DRX-cycle≤10.24           | Note1 (5\*CSSF~interRAT~)        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The time depends on the  |                                  |
| DRX cycle length.                |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: CSSF~interRAT~ is as     |                                  |
| defined in clause 9.4.3.2.       |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 3: See Table 9.4.3.2-1.     |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

If higher layer filtering is used, an additional cell identification
delay can be expected.

The NR -- E-UTRAN TDD RSRP measurement accuracy for all measured cells
shall be as specified in clause 10.2.2. The NR -- E-UTRAN TDD RSRQ
measurement accuracy for all measured cells shall be as specified in
clause 10.2.3. The NR -- E-UTRAN TDD RS-SINR measurement accuracy for
all measured cells shall be as specified in clause 10.2.5.

#### 9.4.3.4 Measurement reporting requirements

##### 9.4.3.4.1 Periodic Reporting

The reported NR -- E-UTRAN TDD RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR measurements
contained in periodically triggered measurement reports shall meet the
requirements in clauses 10.2.2, 10.2.3, and 10.2.5, respectively.

##### 9.4.3.4.2 Event-Triggered Periodic Reporting

The reported NR -- E-UTRAN TDD RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR measurements
contained in event-triggered periodic measurement reports shall meet the
requirements in clauses 10.2.2, 10.2.3, and 10.2.5, respectively.

The first report in event-triggered periodic measurement reporting shall
meet the requirements specified in clause 9.4.3.4.3.

##### 9.4.3.4.3 Event-Triggered Reporting

The reported NR -- E-UTRAN TDD RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR measurements
contained in event-triggered measurement reports shall meet the
requirements in clauses 10.2.2, 10.2.3, and 10.2.5, respectively.

The UE shall not send any event-triggered measurement reports as long as
no reporting criteria are fulfilled.

The measurement reporting delay is defined as the time between an event
that will trigger a measurement report and the point when the UE starts
to transmit the measurement report over the air interface. This
requirement assumes that that the measurement report is not delayed by
other RRC signalling on the DCCH. This measurement reporting delay
excludes a delay uncertainty resulted when inserting the measurement
report to the TTI of the uplink DCCH. The delay uncertainty is: 2 x
TTI~DCCH~ where TTI~DCCH~ is the duration of subframe or slot or subslot
when the measurement report is transmitted on the PUSCH with subframe or
slot or subslot duration. This measurement reporting delay excludes a
delay which caused by no UL resources for UE to send the measurement
report.

The event triggered measurement reporting delay, measured without L3
filtering shall be less than T ~Identify,\ E-UTRAN\ TDD~ defined in
clauses 9.4.3.2 and 9.4.3.3 without DRX and with DRX, respectively. When
L3 filtering is used, an additional delay can be expected.

If a cell which has been detectable at least for the time period
T~Identify,\ E-UTRAN\ TDD~ becomes undetectable for a period ≤ 5 seconds
and then the cell becomes detectable again and triggers an event as per
TS 38.331 \[2\], the event triggered measurement reporting delay shall
be less than T~Measure,\ E-UTRAN\ TDD~ provided the timing to that cell
has not changed more than ± 50 Ts while measurement gap has not been
available and the L3 filter has not been used.

### 9.4.4 Inter-RAT RSTD measurements

#### 9.4.4.1 NR − E-UTRAN FDD RSTD measurements

##### 9.4.4.1.1 Introduction

The requirements are applicable for NR−E-UTRAN FDD RSTD measurements
requested via LPP \[22, 27\].

When the UE is in NE-DC operation mode and an NR−E-UTRAN FDD RSTD
measurement configured by NR PCell is on a E-UTRA serving frequency
carrier, then the corresponding E-UTRA intra-frequency measurements
requirements as follows shall apply.

\- Measurements configured on E-UTRA PSCC shall meet E-UTRAN OTDOA
intra-frequency measurements requirements in clause 8.1.2.5. The
applicable measurement accuracy requirements are in clause 9.1.10.

\- Measurements configured on E-UTRA SCC shall meet all applicable
requirements in clause 8.4, except that the terms PCell and primary
component carrier shall be deemed to be swapped with PSCell and PSCC.
The applicable measurement accuracy requirements are in clause 9.1.12,
except that the terms PCell and primary component carrier shall be
deemed to be swapped with PSCell and PSCC.

The requirements in clause 9.4.4.1 apply when:

\- the UE is provided with the LTE timing information via LPP \[27\],
including both *nr-LTE-SFN-Offset* and *nr-LTE-fineTiming-Offset*, or

\- the UE is not provided with *nr-LTE-SFN-Offset* or
*nr-LTE-fineTiming-Offset*, or

\- the UE is provided with *nr-LTE-SFN-Offset* but not with
*nr-LTE-fineTiming-Offset*.

When the UE is not aware of the SFN of at least one LTE cell in the
OTDOA assistance data, the UE may be using autonomous gaps to acquire
SFN of the OTDOA assistance data reference cell prior to requesting
measurement gaps for performing the requested E-UTRA RSTD measurements
before the ![](media/image26.wmf){width="1.4895833333333333in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"} time period starts while meeting all the
requirements in clause 9.4.4.1.2, provided that the OTDOA assistance
data is provided to allow sufficient time for the UE to acquire the SFN
before the ![](media/image26.wmf){width="1.4895833333333333in"
height="0.2604166666666667in"} starts.

When the UE is not aware of and cannot derive the subframe timing
difference between the NR serving cell and the OTDOA assistance data
reference cell, the UE may need to request measurement gaps to perform
cell detection for the OTDOA assistance data reference cell prior to
requesting measurement gaps for performing the requested E-UTRA RSTD
measurements before the
![](media/image26.wmf){width="1.4916666666666667in"
height="0.25833333333333336in"} time period starts while meeting all the
requirements in clause 9.4.4.1.2, provided that the OTDOA assistance
data is provided to allow sufficient time for the UE to detect the cell
before the ![](media/image26.wmf){width="1.4916666666666667in"
height="0.25833333333333336in"} starts.

##### 9.4.4.1.2 Requirements

When the physical layer cell identities of neighbour cells together with
the OTDOA assistance data are provided, the UE shall be able to detect
and measure inter-RAT E-UTRAN FDD RSTD, specified in TS 38.215 \[4\],
for at least *n*=16 cells, including the reference cell, within
![](media/image26.wmf){width="1.4916666666666667in"
height="0.25833333333333336in"} ms as given below:

![](media/image27.wmf){width="3.283333333333333in"
height="0.25833333333333336in"},

where

![](media/image28.wmf){width="1.4916666666666667in"
height="0.25833333333333336in"} is the total time for detecting and
measuring at least *n* cells,

![](media/image29.wmf){width="0.3in" height="0.25in"} is the largest
value of the cell-specific positioning subframe configuration period,
defined in TS 36.211 \[23\], among the measured *n* cells including the
reference cell,

![](media/image30.wmf){width="0.21666666666666667in" height="0.175in"}
is the number of PRS positioning occasions as defined in Table
9.4.4.1.2-1, where each PRS positioning occasion comprises of
![](media/image31.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.25in"}
(1≤![](media/image32.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.25in"}≤6)
consecutive downlink positioning subframes defined in TS 36.211 \[23\],

CSSF~interRAT~=CSSF~within\_gap,i~ is the scaling factor determined by
the gap sharing scheme for the RSTD measurements on the carrier
frequency *i* as defined in clause 9.1.5.2,

![](media/image33.wmf){width="0.15833333333333333in" height="0.175in"} =
![](media/image34.wmf){width="0.7083333333333334in"
height="0.4666666666666667in"} ms is the measurement time for a single
PRS positioning occasion which includes the sampling time and the
processing time, and

the *n* cells are distributed on up to two E-UTRAN FDD carrier
frequencies.

**Table 9.4.4.1.2-1: Number of PRS positioning occasions within**
![](media/image26.wmf){width="1.4916666666666667in"
height="0.25833333333333336in"}

+----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+
| Positioning subframe | Number of PRS        |                     |
| configuration        | positioning          |                     |
| period,              | occasions,           |                     |
| ![](media/image2     | ![](media/im         |                     |
| 9.wmf){width="0.3in" | age30.wmf){width="0. |                     |
| height="0.25in"}     | 21666666666666667in" |                     |
|                      | height="0.175in"}    |                     |
+----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+
|                      | f2 ^Note1^           | f1 and f2 ^Note2^   |
+----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+
| 160 ms               | 16 × CSSF~interRAT~  | 32 × CSSF~interRAT~ |
+----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+
| \>160 ms             | 8 × CSSF~interRAT~   | 16 × CSSF~interRAT~ |
+----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+
| NOTE 1: When         |                      |                     |
| inter-RAT E-UTRAN    |                      |                     |
| FDD RSTD             |                      |                     |
| measurements are     |                      |                     |
| performed over the   |                      |                     |
| reference cell and   |                      |                     |
| neighbour cells,     |                      |                     |
| which belong to the  |                      |                     |
| E-UTRAN FDD carrier  |                      |                     |
| frequency f2.        |                      |                     |
|                      |                      |                     |
| NOTE 2: When         |                      |                     |
| inter-RAT E-UTRAN    |                      |                     |
| FDD RSTD             |                      |                     |
| measurements are     |                      |                     |
| performed over the   |                      |                     |
| reference cell and   |                      |                     |
| the neighbour cells, |                      |                     |
| which belong to the  |                      |                     |
| E-UTRAN FDD carrier  |                      |                     |
| frequency f1 and the |                      |                     |
| E-UTRAN FDD carrier  |                      |                     |
| frequency f2         |                      |                     |
| respectively.        |                      |                     |
+----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+

The UE physical layer shall be capable of reporting RSTD for the
reference cell and all the neighbor cells *i* out of at least (*n*-1)
neighbor cells within
![](media/image26.wmf){width="1.4916666666666667in"
height="0.25833333333333336in"} provided:

![](media/image35.wmf){width="1.075in" height="0.3in"}≥-6 dB for all
Frequency Bands for the reference cell,

![](media/image36.wmf){width="0.925in"
height="0.2833333333333333in"}≥-13 dB for all Frequency Bands for
neighbour cell *i*,

![](media/image35.wmf){width="1.075in" height="0.3in"} and
![](media/image36.wmf){width="0.925in" height="0.2833333333333333in"}
conditions apply for all subframes of at least
![](media/image37.wmf){width="0.5083333333333333in" height="0.425in"}
PRS positioning occasions,

PRP 1,2\|~dBm~ according to TS 36.133 \[15, Annex B.2.6\] for a
corresponding Band,

![](media/image38.wmf){width="0.8416666666666667in"
height="0.2833333333333333in"} is defined as the ratio of the average
received energy per PRS resource element during the useful part of the
symbol to the average received power spectral density of the total noise
and interference for this resource element, where the ratio is measured
over all resource elements which carry PRS.

The time ![](media/image26.wmf){width="1.4916666666666667in"
height="0.25833333333333336in"} starts from the first subframe of the
PRS positioning occasion closest in time after both the
*OTDOA-RequestLocationInformation* message and the OTDOA assistance data
in the *OTDOA-ProvideAssistanceData* message via LPP as specified in
TS 38.305 \[22\], are delivered to the physical layer of the UE.

The RSTD measurement accuracy for all measured neighbor cells *i* shall
be fulfilled according to the accuracy as specified in clause 10.2.4.

##### 9.4.4.1.2.1 RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay {#rstd-measurement-reporting-delay .H6}

This requirement assumes that the measurement report is not delayed by
other LPP signalling on the DCCH. This measurement reporting delay
excludes a delay uncertainty resulted when inserting the measurement
report to the TTI of the uplink DCCH. The delay uncertainty is: 2 x
TTI~DCCH~ where TTI~DCCH~ is the duration of subframe or slot or subslot
when the measurement report is transmitted on the PUSCH with subframe or
slot or subslot duration. This measurement reporting delay excludes any
delay caused by no UL resources for UE to send the measurement report.

##### 9.4.4.1.2.2 Requirements for acquiring the timing of the E-UTRA OTDOA reference cell {#requirements-for-acquiring-the-timing-of-the-e-utra-otdoa-reference-cell .H6}

When the UE is not aware of the SFN of at least one LTE cell in the
OTDOA assistance data, the UE supporting per-FR gaps may make autonomous
gaps in downlink reception and uplink transmission of the PCell, PSCell,
and each of the SCells in FR1 for acquiring SFN of the reference cell in
the E-UTRA OTDOA assistance data, while no autonomous gaps in downlink
reception or uplink transmission are allowed in any of the UE serving
cells in FR2. The UE, which are only supporting per-UE gaps, may make
autonomous gaps in downlink reception and uplink transmission of the
PCell, PSCell, and each of the SCells for acquiring the SFN of the
reference cell in the E-UTRA OTDOA assistance data.

When the UE is not aware of and cannot derive the subframe timing
difference between the NR serving cell and the OTDOA assistance data
reference cell, the UE may need to request measurement gaps while
indicating *eutra-FineTimingDetection* according to TS 38.331 \[2\] for
detecting the reference cell in the E-UTRA OTDOA assistance data.

When the UE is performing one or both of SFN acquisition or cell
detection as specified above, the UE shall be able to determine the
timing of the E-UTRA OTDOA assistance data reference cell during the
time period

T~RefCell,E-UTRAN~ = T~Detect,\ E-UTRAN\ FDD~ + T~MIB~ + T~ECGI~ ,

where

T~Detect,\ E-UTRAN\ FDD~ = T~Identify,\ E-UTRAN\ FDD~ -
T~measure,\ E-UTRAN\ FDD~ is according to clause 9.4.2 assuming
CSSF~interRAT~=1 and it is the time needed to detect the E-UTRA OTDOA
assistance data reference cell when the UE needs to acquire the subframe
and slot timing of the cell, provided the UE is configured with
measurement gaps (T~Detect,\ E-UTRAN\ FDD~=0 when both
*nr-LTE-SFN-Offset* and *nr-LTE-fineTiming-Offset* are provided in the
E-UTRA OTDOA assistance data or the E-UTRA OTDOA assistance data
reference cell is known to the UE), and

T~MIB~ = 50 ms is the time required to acquire SFN and/or PHICH
configuration of the E-UTRA OTDOA assistance data reference cell
provided the OTDOA assistance data reference cell is decodable and at
least all E-UTRA subframes \#0 during T~MIB~ are available at the UE
receiver (T~MIB~=0 when *nr-LTE-SFN-Offset* is provided in the E-UTRA
OTDOA assistance data and ECGI acquisition is not needed), and

T~ECGI~ = 100 ms is the time required to acquire ECGI of the E-UTRA
OTDOA assistance data reference cell when *cellGlobalId* is included in
*OTDOA-ReferenceCellInfo* and the UE is not aware of the ECGI of this
cell (T~ECGI~ = 0 when *cellGlobalId* is not included in
*OTDOA-ReferenceCellInfo* or the UE is aware of the ECGI of the E-UTRA
OTDOA assistance data reference cell).

When detecting the E-UTRAN OTDOA reference cell, the requirements in
this clause shall be met, provided the conditions for the detectable
cell are fulfilled according to clause 9.4.2.1. In addition, the MIB of
the E-UTRA OTDOA reference cell whose SFN is acquired shall be
considered decodable by the UE provided the PBCH demodulation
requirements are met according to TS 36.101 \[25\].

The requirement for acquiring the timing of the E-UTRA OTDOA reference
cell within T~RefCell,E-UTRAN~ is applicable when no DRX is used as well
as when any of the DRX cycles specified in TS 38.331 \[2\] is used.

When T~MIB~\>0 and UE is using autonomous gaps during T~MIB~, the UE
shall transmit at least N~ACK/NACK,\ MIB,\ FDD~ ACK/NACKs on PCell,
PSCell, and each of activated SCell(s) in the frequency range where the
autonomous gaps are created, specified in Table 9.4.4.1.2.2-1. When both
T~MIB~\>0 and T~ECGI~\>0 and UE is using autonomous gaps during
T~MIB~+T~ECGI~, the UE shall transmit on PCell, PSCell, and each of
activated SCell(s) in the frequency range where autonomous gaps are
created at least N~ACK/NACK,\ MIB+ECGI,\ FDD~ ACK/NACKs specified in
Table 9.4.4.1.2.2-3, provided the OTDOA reference cell bandwidth is
configured in the OTDOA assistance data \[22, 27\]. The requirements in
Tables 9.4.4.1.2.2-1, 9.4.4.1.2.2-2, and 9.4.4.1.2.2-3 apply, provided
that:

\- there is continuous DL data allocation,

\- no DRX cycle is used,

\- no measurement gaps are configured,

\- only one code word is transmitted in each slot,

\- 2 slot ACK/NACK feedback is configured,

\- 20 ms SMTC period is configured,

\- SSBs are transmitted in one slot within SMTC window.

Table 9.4.4.1.2.2-2: Void

Table 9.4.4.1.2.2-2: Number of ACK/NACKs transmitted by the UE during
T~ECGI~

+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| N~ACK/NACK,\ ECGI,\ FDD~   | Configuration of the       |         |
|                            | serving cell in which the  |         |
|                            | transmitted ACK/NACKs are  |         |
|                            | counted                    |         |
+============================+============================+=========+
|                            | Duplex mode configuration  | SCS     |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 66                         | FDD                        | 15 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 145                        | FDD                        | 30 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 298                        | FDD                        | 60 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 28                         | TDD ^Note\ 1^              | 15 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 67                         | TDD ^Note\ 1^              | 30 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 144                        | TDD ^Note\ 1^              | 60 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 175                        | TDD ^Note\ 2^              | 60 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 363                        | TDD ^Note\ 2^              | 120 kHz |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| NOTE 1: TDD UL-DL          |                            |         |
| configuration is as        |                            |         |
| specified in Table         |                            |         |
| A.3.3.1-1 of TS 38.101-1   |                            |         |
| \[18\].                    |                            |         |
|                            |                            |         |
| NOTE 2: TDD UL-DL          |                            |         |
| configuration is as        |                            |         |
| specified in Table         |                            |         |
| A.3.3.1-1 of TS 38.101-2   |                            |         |
| \[19\].                    |                            |         |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+

Table 9.4.4.1.2.2-3: Number of ACK/NACKs transmitted by the UE during
T~MIB~+T~ECGI~

+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| N~                         | Configuration of the       |         |
| ACK/NACK,\ MIB+ECGI,\ FDD~ | serving cell in which the  |         |
|                            | transmitted ACK/NACKs are  |         |
|                            | counted                    |         |
+============================+============================+=========+
|                            | Duplex mode configuration  | SCS     |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 84                         | FDD                        | 15 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 193                        | FDD                        | 30 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 402                        | FDD                        | 60 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 28                         | TDD ^Note\ 1^              | 15 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 81                         | TDD ^Note\ 1^              | 30 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 159                        | TDD ^Note\ 1^              | 60 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 233                        | TDD ^Note\ 2^              | 60 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 491                        | TDD ^Note\ 2^              | 120 kHz |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| NOTE 1: TDD UL-DL          |                            |         |
| configuration is as        |                            |         |
| specified in Table         |                            |         |
| A.3.3.1-1 of TS 38.101-1   |                            |         |
| \[18\].                    |                            |         |
|                            |                            |         |
| NOTE 2: TDD UL-DL          |                            |         |
| configuration is as        |                            |         |
| specified in Table         |                            |         |
| A.3.3.1-1 of TS 38.101-2   |                            |         |
| \[19\].                    |                            |         |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+

#### 9.4.4.2 NR − E-UTRAN TDD RSTD measurements

##### 9.4.4.2.1 Introduction

The requirements are applicable for NR−E-UTRAN TDD RSTD measurements
requested via LPP \[22, 27\].

When the UE is in NE-DC operation mode and an NR−E-UTRAN TDD RSTD
measurement configured by NR PCell is on a E-UTRA serving frequency
carrier, then the corresponding E-UTRA intra-frequency measurements
requirements as follows shall apply.

\- Measurements configured on E-UTRA PSCC shall meet E-UTRAN OTDOA
intra-frequency measurements requirements in clause 8.1.2.5. The
applicable measurement accuracy requirements are in clause 9.1.10.

\- Measurements configured on E-UTRA SCC shall meet all applicable
requirements in clause 8.4, except that the terms PCell and primary
component carrier shall be deemed to be swapped with PSCell and PSCC.
The applicable measurement accuracy requirements are in clause 9.1.12,
except that the terms PCell and primary component carrier shall be
deemed to be swapped with PSCell and PSCC.

The requirements in clause 9.4.4.1 apply when:

\- the UE is provided with the LTE timing information via LPP \[27\],
including both *nr-LTE-SFN-Offset* and *nr-LTE-fineTiming-Offset*, or

\- the UE is not provided with *nr-LTE-SFN-Offset* or
*nr-LTE-fineTiming-Offset*, or

\- the UE is provided with *nr-LTE-SFN-Offset* but not with
*nr-LTE-fineTiming-Offset*.

When the UE is not aware of the SFN of at least one LTE cell in the
OTDOA assistance data, the UE may be using autonomous gaps to acquire
SFN of the OTDOA assistance data reference cell prior to requesting
measurement gaps for performing the requested E-UTRA RSTD measurements
before the ![](media/image39.wmf){width="1.5in"
height="0.26666666666666666in"} time period starts while meeting all the
requirements in clause 9.4.4.2.2, provided that the OTDOA assistance
data is provided to allow sufficient time for the UE to acquire the SFN
before the ![](media/image39.wmf){width="1.5in"
height="0.26666666666666666in"} starts. When the UE is not aware of and
cannot derive the subframe timing difference between the NR serving cell
and the OTDOA assistance data reference cell, the UE may need to request
measurement gaps to perform cell detection for the OTDOA assistance data
reference cell prior to requesting measurement gaps for performing the
requested E-UTRA RSTD measurements before the
![](media/image39.wmf){width="1.5in" height="0.26666666666666666in"}
time period starts while meeting all the requirements in
clause 9.4.4.2.2, provided that the OTDOA assistance data is provided to
allow sufficient time for the UE to detect the cell before the
![](media/image39.wmf){width="1.5in" height="0.26666666666666666in"}
starts.

##### 9.4.4.2.2 Requirements

When the physical layer cell identities of neighbour cells together with
the OTDOA assistance data are provided, the UE shall be able to detect
and measure inter-RAT -UTRAN TDD RSTD, specified in TS 38.215 \[4\], for
at least *n*=16 cells, including the reference cell, within
![](media/image40.wmf){width="1.5in" height="0.26666666666666666in"} ms
as given below:

![](media/image41.wmf){width="3.2916666666666665in"
height="0.26666666666666666in"} ,

where

![](media/image39.wmf){width="1.5in" height="0.26666666666666666in"}is
the total time for detecting and measuring at least *n* cells,

![](media/image29.wmf){width="0.3in" height="0.25in"} is the largest
value of the cell-specific positioning subframe configuration period,
defined in TS 36.211 \[23\], among the measured *n* cells including the
reference cell,

![](media/image30.wmf){width="0.21666666666666667in" height="0.175in"}
is the number of PRS positioning occasions as defined in Table
9.4.4.2.2-1, where a PRS positioning occasion is as defined in
clause 9.4.4.1.2,

CSSF~interRAT~=CSSF~within\_gap,i~ is the scaling factor determined by
the gap sharing scheme for the RSTD measurements on the carrier
frequency *i* as defined in clause 9.1.5.2,

![](media/image33.wmf){width="0.15833333333333333in" height="0.175in"} =
![](media/image34.wmf){width="0.7083333333333334in" height="0.475in"} ms
is the measurement time for a single PRS positioning occasion which
includes the sampling time and the processing time, and

the *n* cells are distributed on up to two E-UTRAN TDD carrier
frequencies.

**Table 9.4.4.2.2-1: Number of PRS positioning occasions within**
![](media/image42.wmf){width="1.5in" height="0.26666666666666666in"}

+----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+
| Positioning subframe | Number of PRS        |                     |
| ![](media/image2     | positioning          |                     |
| 9.wmf){width="0.3in" | occasions,           |                     |
| height="0.25in"}     | ![](media/im         |                     |
|                      | age30.wmf){width="0. |                     |
|                      | 21666666666666667in" |                     |
|                      | height="0.175in"}    |                     |
+----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+
| configuration        | f2 ^Note1^           | f1 and f2 ^Note2^   |
| period,              |                      |                     |
+----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+
| 160 ms               | 16 × CSSF~interRAT~  | 32 × CSSF~interRAT~ |
+----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+
| \>160 ms             | 8 × CSSF~interRAT~   | 16 × CSSF~interRAT~ |
+----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+
| NOTE 1: When         |                      |                     |
| inter-RAT E-UTRAN    |                      |                     |
| TDD RSTD             |                      |                     |
| measurements are     |                      |                     |
| performed over the   |                      |                     |
| reference cell and   |                      |                     |
| neighbour cells,     |                      |                     |
| which belong to the  |                      |                     |
| E-UTRAN TDD carrier  |                      |                     |
| frequency f2.        |                      |                     |
|                      |                      |                     |
| NOTE 2: When         |                      |                     |
| inter-RAT E-UTRAN    |                      |                     |
| TDD RSTD             |                      |                     |
| measurements are     |                      |                     |
| performed over the   |                      |                     |
| reference cell and   |                      |                     |
| the neighbour cells, |                      |                     |
| which belong to the  |                      |                     |
| E-UTRAN TDD carrier  |                      |                     |
| frequency f1 and the |                      |                     |
| E-UTRAN TDD carrier  |                      |                     |
| frequency f2         |                      |                     |
| respectively.        |                      |                     |
+----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+

The requirements in this clause shall apply for all TDD special subframe
configurations specified in TS 36.211 \[23\] and for the TDD
uplink-downlink configurations as specified in Table 9.4.4.2.2-2 for UE
requiring measurement gaps for these measurements. For UEs capable of
performing inter-RAT RSTD measurements without measurement gaps, TDD
uplink-downlink subframe configurations as specified in Table
9.4.4.2.2-3 shall apply.

Table 9.4.4.2.2-2: TDD uplink-downlink subframe configurations
applicable for inter-RAT RSTD requirements

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------------------------------
  **PRS Transmission Bandwidth (RB)**                                                        **Applicable TDD uplink-downlink configurations**
  6, 15                                                                                      3, 4 and 5
  25                                                                                         1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6
  50, 75, 100                                                                                0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6
  NOTE 1: Uplink-downlink configurations are specified in Table 4.2-2 in TS 36.211 \[23\].   
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------------------------------

**Table 9.4.4.2.2-3: TDD uplink-downlink subframe configurations
applicable for inter-RAT RSTD requirements without gaps**

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------------------------------
  **PRS Transmission Bandwidth (RB)**                                                        **Applicable TDD uplink-downlink configurations**
  6, 15                                                                                      1, 2, 3, 4 and 5
  25, 50, 75, 100                                                                            0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6
  NOTE 1: Uplink-downlink configurations are specified in Table 4.2-2 in TS 36.211 \[23\].   
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------------------------------

The UE physical layer shall be capable of reporting RSTD for the
reference cell and all the neighbor cells *i* out of at least (*n*-1)
neighbor cells within ![](media/image43.wmf){width="1.5in"
height="0.26666666666666666in"} provided:

![](media/image35.wmf){width="1.075in" height="0.3in"}≥-6 dB for all
Frequency Bands for the reference cell,

![](media/image36.wmf){width="0.925in"
height="0.2833333333333333in"}≥-13 dB for all Frequency Bands for
neighbour cell *i*,

![](media/image35.wmf){width="1.075in" height="0.3in"} and
![](media/image36.wmf){width="0.925in" height="0.2833333333333333in"}
conditions apply for all subframes of at least
![](media/image37.wmf){width="0.5083333333333333in" height="0.425in"}
PRS positioning occasions,

PRP 1,2\|~dBm~ according to TS 36.133 \[15, Annex B.2.6\] for a
corresponding Band,

![](media/image38.wmf){width="0.8416666666666667in"
height="0.2833333333333333in"} is as defined in clause 9.4.4.1.2.

The time ![](media/image44.wmf){width="1.5in"
height="0.26666666666666666in"} starts from the first subframe of the
PRS positioning occasion closest in time after both the
OTDOA-RequestLocationInformation message and the OTDOA assistance data
in the OTDOA-ProvideAssistanceData message via LPP as specified in
TS 38.305 \[22\], are delivered to the physical layer of the UE.

The RSTD measurement accuracy for all measured neighbor cells *i* shall
be fulfilled according to the accuracy as specified in clause 10.2.4.

##### 9.4.4.2.2.1 RSTD Measurement Reporting Delay {#rstd-measurement-reporting-delay-1 .H6}

This requirement assumes that that the measurement report is not delayed
by other LPP signalling on the DCCH. This measurement reporting delay
excludes a delay uncertainty resulted when inserting the measurement
report to the TTI of the uplink DCCH. The delay uncertainty is: 2 x
TTI~DCCH~ where TTI~DCCH~ is the duration of subframe or slot or subslot
when the measurement report is transmitted on the PUSCH with subframe or
slot or subslot duration. This measurement reporting delay excludes any
delay caused by no UL resources for UE to send the measurement report.

##### 9.4.4.2.2.2 Requirements for acquiring the timing of the E-UTRA OTDOA reference cell {#requirements-for-acquiring-the-timing-of-the-e-utra-otdoa-reference-cell-1 .H6}

When the UE is not aware of the SFN of at least one LTE cell in the
OTDOA assistance data, the UE supporting per-FR gaps may make autonomous
gaps in downlink reception and uplink transmission of the PCell, PSCell,
and each of the SCells in FR1 for acquiring SFN of the reference cell in
the E-UTRA OTDOA assistance data, while no autonomous gaps in downlink
reception or uplink transmission are allowed in any of the UE serving
cells in FR2. The UE, which are only supporting per-UE gaps, may make
autonomous gaps in downlink reception and uplink transmission of the
PCell, PSCell, and each of the SCells for acquiring the SFN of the
reference cell in the E-UTRA OTDOA assistance data.

When the UE is not aware of and cannot derive the subframe timing
difference between the NR serving cell and the OTDOA assistance data
reference cell, the UE may need to request measurement gaps while
indicating *eutra-FineTimingDetection* according to TS 38.331 \[2\] for
detecting the reference cell in the E-UTRA OTDOA assistance data.

When the UE is performing one or both of SFN acquisition or cell
detection as specified above, the UE shall be able to determine the
timing of the E-UTRA OTDOA assistance data reference cell during the
time period

T~RefCell,E-UTRAN~ = T~Detect,\ E-UTRAN\ TDD~ + T~MIB~ + T~ECGI~ ,

where

T~Detect,\ E-UTRAN\ TDD~ = T~Identify,\ E-UTRAN\ TDD~ -
T~measure,\ E-UTRAN\ TDD~ is according to clause 9.4.3 assuming
CSSF~interRAT~=1 and it is the time needed to detect the E-UTRA OTDOA
assistance data reference cell when the UE needs to acquire the subframe
and slot timing of the cell, provided the UE is configured with
measurement gaps (T~Detect,\ E-UTRAN\ TDD~=0 when both
*nr-LTE-SFN-Offset* and *nr-LTE-fineTiming-Offset* are provided in the
E-UTRA OTDOA assistance data or the E-UTRA OTDOA assistance data
reference cell is known to the UE), and

T~MIB~ = 50 ms is the time required to acquire SFN and/or PHICH
configuration of the E-UTRA OTDOA assistance data reference cell
provided the OTDOA assistance data reference cell is decodable and at
least all E-UTRA subframes \#0 during T~MIB~ are available at the UE
receiver (T~MIB~=0 when *nr-LTE-SFN-Offset* is provided in the E-UTRA
OTDOA assistance data and ECGI acquisition is not needed), and

T~ECGI~ = 100 ms is the time required to acquire ECGI of the E-UTRA
OTDOA assistance data reference cell when *cellGlobalId* is included in
*OTDOA-ReferenceCellInfo* and the UE is not aware of the ECGI of this
cell (T~ECGI~ = 0 when *cellGlobalId* is not included in
*OTDOA-ReferenceCellInfo* or the UE is aware of the ECGI of the E-UTRA
OTDOA assistance data reference cell).

When detecting the E-UTRAN OTDOA reference cell, the requirements in
this clause shall be met, provided the conditions for the detectable
cell are fulfilled according to clause 9.4.3.1. In addition, the MIB of
the E-UTRA OTDOA reference cell whose SFN is acquired shall be
considered decodable by the UE provided the PBCH demodulation
requirements are met according to TS 36.101 \[25\].

The requirement for acquiring the timing of the E-UTRA OTDOA reference
cell within T~RefCell,E-UTRAN~ is applicable when no DRX is used as well
as when any of the DRX cycles specified in TS 38.331 \[2\] is used.

When T~MIB~\>0 and UE is using autonomous gaps during T~MIB~, the UE
shall transmit at least N~ACK/NACK,\ MIB,\ TDD~ ACK/NACKs on PCell,
PSCell, and each of activated SCell(s) in the frequency range where the
autonomous gaps are created, specified in Table 9.4.4.2.2.2-1. When both
T~MIB~\>0 and T~ECGI~\>0 and UE is using autonomous gaps during
T~MIB~+T~ECGI~, the UE shall transmit on PCell, PSCell, and each of
activated SCell(s) in the frequency range where autonomous gaps are
created at least N~ACK/NACK,\ MIB+ECGI,\ TDD~ ACK/NACKs specified in
Table 9.4.4.2.2.2-3, provided the OTDOA reference cell bandwidth is
configured in the OTDOA assistance data \[22, 27\]. The requirements in
Tables 9.4.4.2.2.2-1, 9.4.4.2.2.2-2 and 9.4.4.2.2.2-3 apply, provided
that:

\- there is continuous DL data allocation,

\- no DRX cycle is used,

\- no measurement gaps are configured,

\- only one code word is transmitted in each slot,

\- 2 slot ACK/NACK feedback is configured,

\- 20 ms SMTC period is configured,

\- SSBs are transmitted in one slot within SMTC window.

Table 9.4.4.2.2.2-1: Minimum number of ACK/NACKs transmitted by the UE
during T~MIB~

+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| N~ACK/NACK,\ MIB,\ TDD~    | Configuration of the       |         |
|                            | serving cell in which the  |         |
|                            | transmitted ACK/NACKs are  |         |
|                            | counted                    |         |
+============================+============================+=========+
|                            | Duplex mode configuration  | SCS     |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 15                         | FDD                        | 15 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 39                         | FDD                        | 30 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 85                         | FDD                        | 60 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 0                          | TDD ^Note\ 1^              | 15 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 4                          | TDD ^Note\ 1^              | 30 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 12                         | TDD ^Note\ 1^              | 60 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 46                         | TDD ^Note\ 2^              | 60 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 104                        | TDD ^Note\ 2^              | 120 kHz |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| NOTE 1: TDD UL-DL          |                            |         |
| configuration is as        |                            |         |
| specified in Table         |                            |         |
| A.3.3.1-1 of TS 38.101-1   |                            |         |
| \[18\].                    |                            |         |
|                            |                            |         |
| NOTE 2: TDD UL-DL          |                            |         |
| configuration is as        |                            |         |
| specified in Table         |                            |         |
| A.3.3.1-1 of TS 38.101-2   |                            |         |
| \[19\].                    |                            |         |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+

Table 9.4.4.2.2.2-2: Void

Table 9.4.4.2.2.2-3: Minimum number of ACK/NACKs transmitted by the UE
during T~MIB~+T~ECGI~

+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| N~                         | Configuration of the       |         |
| ACK/NACK,\ MIB+ECGI,\ TDD~ | serving cell in which the  |         |
|                            | transmitted ACK/NACKs are  |         |
|                            | counted                    |         |
+============================+============================+=========+
|                            | Duplex mode configuration  | SCS     |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 84                         | FDD                        | 15 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 193                        | FDD                        | 30 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 402                        | FDD                        | 60 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 28                         | TDD ^Note\ 1^              | 15 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 81                         | TDD ^Note\ 1^              | 30 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 159                        | TDD ^Note\ 1^              | 60 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 233                        | TDD ^Note\ 2^              | 60 kHz  |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| 491                        | TDD ^Note\ 2^              | 120 kHz |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
| NOTE 1: TDD UL-DL          |                            |         |
| configuration is as        |                            |         |
| specified in Table         |                            |         |
| A.3.3.1-1 of TS 38.101-1   |                            |         |
| \[18\].                    |                            |         |
|                            |                            |         |
| NOTE 2: TDD UL-DL          |                            |         |
| configuration is as        |                            |         |
| specified in Table         |                            |         |
| A.3.3.1-1 of TS 38.101-2   |                            |         |
| \[19\].                    |                            |         |
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+

### 9.4.5 Inter-RAT E-CID measurements

#### 9.4.5.1 NR−E-UTRAN FDD E-CID RSRP and RSRQ measurements

##### 9.4.5.1.1 Introduction

The requirements in clause 9.4.5.1. shall apply provided the UE has
received *ECID-RequestLocationInformation* message from LMF via LPP
requesting the UE to report inter-RAT E-UTRAN FDD E-CID RSRP and RSRQ
measurements \[22, 27\].

##### 9.4.5.1.2 Requirements

The requirements in clause 9.4.2 also apply for this clause except the
measurement reporting requirements. The measurement reporting
requirements for E-CID RSRP and RSRQ are defined in clause 9.4.5.1.3.

##### 9.4.5.1.3 Measurement Reporting Delay

This requirement assumes that that the measurement report is not delayed
by other LPP signalling on the DCCH. This measurement reporting delay
excludes a delay uncertainty resulted when inserting the measurement
report to the TTI of the uplink DCCH. The delay uncertainty is: 2 x
TTI~DCCH~ where TTI~DCCH~ is the duration of subframe or slot or subslot
when the measurement report is transmitted on the PUSCH with subframe or
slot or subslot duration. This measurement reporting delay excludes any
delay caused by no UL resources for UE to send the measurement report.

Reported RSRP and RSRQ measurements contained in periodically triggered
measurement reports shall meet the requirements in clauses 10.2.2 and
10.2.3, respectively.

#### 9.4.5.2 NR−E-UTRAN TDD E-CID RSRP and RSRQ measurements

##### 9.4.5.2.1 Introduction

The requirements in clause 9.4.5.2. shall apply provided the UE has
received *ECID-RequestLocationInformation* message from LMF via LPP
requesting the UE to report inter-RAT E-UTRAN TDD E-CID RSRP and RSRQ
measurements \[22, 27\].

##### 9.4.5.2.2 Requirements

The requirements in clause 9.4.3 also apply for this clause except the
measurement reporting requirements. The measurement reporting
requirements for E-CID RSRP and RSRQ are defined in clause 9.4.5.2.3.

##### 9.4.5.2.3 Measurement Reporting Delay

This requirement assumes that the measurement report is not delayed by
other LPP signalling on the DCCH. This measurement reporting delay
excludes a delay uncertainty resulted when inserting the measurement
report to the TTI of the uplink DCCH. The delay uncertainty is: 2 x
TTI~DCCH~ where TTI~DCCH~ is the duration of subframe or slot or subslot
when the measurement report is transmitted on the PUSCH with subframe or
slot or subslot duration. This measurement reporting delay excludes any
delay caused by no UL resources for UE to send the measurement report.

Reported RSRP and RSRQ measurements contained in periodically triggered
measurement reports shall meet the requirements in clauses 10.2.2 and
10.2.3, respectively.

### 9.4.6 NR − UTRAN FDD measurements

#### 9.4.6.1 Introduction

The requirements are applicable for NR− UTRAN FDD CPICH RSCP and CPICH
Ec/No measurements for SRVCC.

#### 9.4.6.2 Requirements when no DRX is used

##### 9.4.6.2.1 Identification of a new UTRA FDD cell {#identification-of-a-new-utra-fdd-cell .H6}

When explicit neighbour list is provided and no DRX is used, either
measurement gaps are scheduled or the UE supports capability of
conducting such measurements without gaps, the UE shall be able to
identify a new detectable cell belonging to the monitored set within

A cell shall be considered detectable when

\- CPICH Ec/Io [\>]{.underline} -20 dB,

\- SCH\_Ec/Io [\>]{.underline} -17 dB for at least one channel tap and
SCH\_Ec/Ior is equally divided between primary synchronisation code and
secondary synchronisation code. When L3 filtering is used an additional
delay can be expected.

##### 9.4.6.2.2 UE UTRA FDD CPICH measurement capability {#ue-utra-fdd-cpich-measurement-capability .H6}

When measurement gaps are scheduled for UTRA FDD inter RAT measurements,
or the UE supports capability of conducting such measurements without
gaps, the UE physical layer shall be capable of reporting measurements
to higher layers with measurement accuracy as specified in Clause 10
with measurement period given by

The UE shall be capable of performing UTRA FDD CPICH measurements for
X~basic\ measurementUTRA\_FDD~ inter-frequency cells per FDD frequency
and the UE physical layer shall be capable of reporting measurements to
higher layers with the measurement period of
T~Measurement\_\ UTRA\_FDD.~

X~basic\ measurement\ UTRA\_FDD~ = 6

T~Measurement\_Period\ UTRA\_FDD~ = 480 ms. The period used for
calculating the measurement period T~measurement\_UTRA\_FDD~ for UTRA
FDD CPICH measurements.

T~basic\_identify\_UTRA\_FDD~ = 300 ms. This is the time period used in
the inter RAT equation in clause 9.4.6.2.1 where the maximum allowed
time for the UE to identify a new UTRA FDD cell is defined.

T~basic\_measurement\_UTRA\_FDD~ = 50 ms. This is the time period used
in the equation for defining the measurement period for inter RAT CPICH
measurements.

CSSF~interRAT~ = CSSF~within\_gap,i~ is the scaling factor for the
measured inter-RAT UTRA carrier *i* which is calculated as specified in
clause 9.1.5.2.

T~inter1~ is defined in clause 9.4.1.

##### 9.4.6.2.3 Periodic Reporting {#periodic-reporting-4 .H6}

Reported measurements in periodically triggered measurement reports
shall meet the requirements in clause 10.

##### 9.4.6.2.4 Event Triggered Reporting {#event-triggered-reporting-4 .H6}

Reported measurements in event triggered measurement reports shall meet
the requirements in clause 10.

The UE shall not send any event triggered measurement reports, as long
as the reporting criteria is not fulfilled.

The measurement reporting delay is defined as the time between any event
that will trigger a measurement report until the UE starts to transmit
the measurement report over the Uu interface. This requirement assumes
that the measurement report is not delayed by other RRC signalling on
the DCCH. This measurement reporting delay excludes a delay uncertainty
resulted when inserting the measurement report to the TTI of the uplink
DCCH. The delay uncertainty is twice the TTI of the uplink DCCH. This
measurement reporting delay excludes a delay which caused by no UL
resources for UE to send the measurement report.

The event triggered measurement reporting delay, measured without L3
filtering shall be less than T~identify,\ UTRA\_FDD~ defined in
Clause 9.4.6.2.1 for the minimum requirements. When L3 filtering is used
an additional delay can be expected.

If a cell which has been detectable at least for the time period
T~identify,\ UTRA\_FDD~ defined in clause 9.4.6.2.1 for the minimum
requirements and then triggers the measurement report as per
TS 38.331 \[2\], the event triggered measurement reporting delay shall
be less than T~measurement\_UTRA\_FDD~ defined in clause 9.4.6.2.2
provided the timing to that cell has not changed more than ± 32 chips
while measurement gap has not been available and the L3 filter has not
been used. When L3 filtering is used, an additional delay can be
expected.

##### 9.4.6.2.5 Event-triggered Periodic Reporting {#event-triggered-periodic-reporting-4 .H6}

Reported measurements contained in event triggered periodic measurement
reports shall meet the requirements in clause 10.

The first report in event triggered periodic measurement reporting shall
meet the requirements specified in clause 9.4.6.2.4 Event Triggered
Reporting.

#### 9.4.6.3 Requirements when DRX is used

When explicit neighbour list is provided and DRX is used, either
measurement gaps are scheduled or the UE supports capability of
conducting such measurements without gaps, the UE shall be able to
identify a new detectable cell belonging to the neighbour cell list
within T~identify,UTRA\_FDD~ as shown in table 9.4.6.3-1

Table 9.4.6.3-1: Requirement to identify a newly detectable UTRA FDD
cell

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| DRX cycle length (s) | T~                   |                      |
|                      | identify\_UTRA\_FDD~ |                      |
|                      | (s) (DRX cycles)     |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | Gap period = 40 ms   | Gap period = 80 ms   |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| ≤0.04                | Non DRX Requirements | Non DRX Requirements |
|                      | in clause 9.4.6.2    | in clause 9.4.6.2    |
|                      | are applicable       | are applicable       |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 0.064                | 2.56                 | 4.8 \*CSSF~interRAT~ |
|                      | \*CSSF~interRAT~     | (75                  |
|                      | (40\*CSSF~interRAT~) | \*CSSF~interRAT~)    |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 0.08                 | 3.2 \*CSSF~interRAT~ | 4.8 \*CSSF~interRAT~ |
|                      | (40                  | (60\*                |
|                      | \*CSSF~interRAT~)    | CSSF~interRAT~)      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 0.128                | 3.2 \*CSSF~interRAT~ | 4.8 \*CSSF~interRAT~ |
|                      | (25\*                | (37.5\*              |
|                      | CSSF~interRAT~)      | CSSF~interRAT~)      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 0.16                 | 3.2 \*CSSF~interRAT~ | 4.8 \*CSSF~interRAT~ |
|                      | (20                  | (30                  |
|                      | \*CSSF~interRAT~)    | \*CSSF~interRAT~)    |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 0.16\<DRX-cycle≤2.56 | Note1 (20            | Note1                |
|                      | \*CSSF~interRAT~)    |                      |
|                      |                      | (20                  |
|                      |                      | \*CSSF~interRAT~)    |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Note 1: Time depends |                      |                      |
| upon the DRX cycle   |                      |                      |
| in use.              |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| Note 2:              |                      |                      |
| CSSF~interRAT~ is as |                      |                      |
| defined in clause    |                      |                      |
| 9.4.2.2.             |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

A cell shall be considered detectable provided following conditions are
fulfilled: A cell shall be considered detectable when

\- CPICH Ec/Io [\>]{.underline} -20 dB,

\- SCH\_Ec/Io [\>]{.underline} -17 dB for at least one channel tap and
SCH\_Ec/Ior is equally divided between primary synchronisation code and
secondary synchronisation code. When L3 filtering is used an additional
delay can be expected.

The UE shall be capable of performing RSCP and Ec/Io measurements of at
least 6 UTRA cells per UTRA FDD carrier for up to 3 UTRA FDD carriers
and the UE physical layer shall be capable of reporting RSCP and Ec/Io
measurements to higher layers with the measurement period defined in
table 9.4.6.3-2 when DRX is used, either measurement gaps are scheduled
or the UE supports capability of conducting such measurements without
gaps.

Table 9.4.6.3-2: Requirement to measure UTRA FDD cells

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| DRX cycle length (s) | T~m                  |                      |
|                      | easure\_\ UTRA\_FDD~ |                      |
|                      | (s) (DRX cycles)     |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | Gap period = 40 ms   | Gap period = 80 ms   |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| ≤0.04                | Non DRX Requirements | Non DRX Requirements |
|                      | in clause 9.4.6.2    | in clause 9.4.6.2    |
|                      | are applicable       | are applicable       |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 0.064                | 0.48\*               | 0.8 \*CSSF~interRAT~ |
|                      | CSSF~interRAT~       |                      |
|                      | (7.5\*               | (12.5                |
|                      | N~fr                 | \*CSSF~interRAT~)    |
|                      | eq~\*CSSF~interRAT~) |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 0.08                 | 0.48                 | 0\.                  |
|                      | \*CSSF~interRAT~     | 8\*CSSF~interRAT~    |
|                      |                      | (10                  |
|                      | (6 \*CSSF~interRAT~) | \*CSSF~interRAT~)    |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 0.128                | 0.64                 | 0\. 8                |
|                      | \*CSSF~interRAT~     | \*CSSF~interRAT~     |
|                      |                      | (6.25                |
|                      | (5 \*CSSF~interRAT~) | \*CSSF~interRAT~)    |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 0                    | Note1 (5             | Note1 (5             |
| .128\<DRX-cycle≤2.56 | \*CSSF~interRAT~)    | \*CSSF~interRAT~)    |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Note 1: Time depends |                      |                      |
| upon the DRX cycle   |                      |                      |
| in use.              |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| Note 2:              |                      |                      |
| CSSF~interRAT~ is as |                      |                      |
| defined in clause    |                      |                      |
| 9.4.2.2.             |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

The measurement accuracy for all measured cells shall be as specified in
the clause 10.3.

##### 9.4.6.3.1 Periodic Reporting {#periodic-reporting-5 .H6}

Reported measurements in periodically triggered measurement reports
shall meet the requirements in clause 10.

##### 9.4.6.3.2 Event Triggered Reporting {#event-triggered-reporting-5 .H6}

Reported measurements in event triggered measurement reports shall meet
the requirements in clause 10.

The UE shall not send any event triggered measurement reports, as long
as the reporting criteria is not fulfilled.

The measurement reporting delay is defined as the time between any event
that will trigger a measurement report until the UE starts to transmit
the measurement report over the Uu interface. This requirement assumes
that the measurement report is not delayed by other RRC signalling on
the DCCH. This measurement reporting delay excludes a delay uncertainty
resulted when inserting the measurement report to the TTI of the uplink
DCCH. The delay uncertainty is twice the TTI of the uplink DCCH. This
measurement reporting delay excludes a delay which caused by no UL
resources for UE to send the measurement report.

The event triggered measurement reporting delay, measured without L3
filtering shall be less than T~identify,UTRA\_FDD~ defined in Clause
9.4.6.3. When L3 filtering is used an additional delay can be expected.

If a cell which has been detectable at least for the time period
T~identify,\ UTRA\_FDD~ defined in clause 9.4.6.3 and then triggers the
measurement report as per TS 38.331 \[2\], the event triggered
measurement reporting delay shall be less than T~measurement\_UTRA\_FDD~
defined in clause 9.4.6.3 provided the timing to that cell has not
changed more than ± 32 chips while measurement gap has not been
available and the L3 filter has not been used. When L3 filtering is
used, an additional delay can be expected.

##### 9.4.6.3.3 Event-triggered Periodic Reporting {#event-triggered-periodic-reporting-5 .H6}

Reported measurements contained in event triggered periodic measurement
reports shall meet the requirements in clause 10.

The first report in event triggered periodic measurement reporting shall
meet the requirements specified in clause 9.4.6.3.2 Event Triggered
Reporting.

### 9.4.7 NR -- E-UTRAN measurements with autonomous gaps

#### 9.4.7.1 CGI identification of an E-UTRA cell with autonomous gaps

The requirements in this clause apply when the UE is configured with
standalone NR, NE-DC or NR-DC. The UE shall identify and report the CGI
when requested by an NR PCell for the purpose 'reportCGI'. The UE may
make autonomous gaps in downlink reception and uplink transmission for
receiving MIB and SIB1 message according to clause 5.5.3.1 in
TS 38.331 \[2\]. If autonomous gaps are used for measurement with the
purpose of 'reportCGI', regardless of whether DRX is used or not, or
regardless of whether SCell(s) are configured or not, the UE shall be
able to identify a new CGI of E-UTRA cell within
$T_{\text{identify\_CGI,\ E-UTAN}}$= 150 ms. This is the maximum allowed
time for the UE to identify a new CGI of an E-UTRA cell, provided that
the E-UTRA cell has been already identified by the UE.

A cell shall be considered identifiable following conditions are
fulfilled:

\- RSRP related side conditions given in Clause 9.1 in \[15\] are
fulfilled for a corresponding Band,

\- SCH\_RP and SCH Ês/Iot according to Annex B.2.2 in \[15\] for a
corresponding Band

The MIB of an E-UTRA cell whose CGI is identified shall be considered
decodable by the UE provided the PBCH demodulation requirements are met
according to \[25\].

The requirement for identifying a new CGI of an E-UTRA cell within
$T_{\text{identify\_CGI,\ E-UTRAN}}$ is applicable when no DRX is used
as well as when any of the DRX cycles specified in TS 38.331 \[2\] is
used.

#### 9.4.7.2 CGI reporting delay

The E-UTRA CGI reporting delay is defined as the time between a command
that will trigger an E-UTRA CGI report and the point when the UE starts
to transmit the measurement report over the air interface. This
requirement assumes that the measurement report is not delayed by other
RRC signalling on the DCCH. This measurement reporting delay excludes a
delay uncertainty of 2 x TTI~DCCH~ resulting when inserting the
measurement report to the TTI of the uplink DCCH. This measurement
reporting delay excludes any delay caused by lack of UL resources for UE
to send the measurement report.

The CGI reporting delay shall be less than
$T_{\text{identify\_CGI,\ E-UTAN}}$ plus RRC procedure delay defined in
clause 12 in TS 38.331 \[2\], and an additional 30ms margin.

9.5 L1-RSRP measurements for Reporting
--------------------------------------

### 9.5.1 Introduction

When configured by the network, the UE shall be able to perform L1-RSRP
measurements of configured CSI-RS, SSB or CSI-RS and SSB resources for
L1-RSRP. The measurements shall be performed for a serving cell,
including PCell, PSCell, or SCell, on the resources configured for
L1-RSRP measurements within the active BWP.

The UE shall be able to measure all CSI-RS resources and/or SSB
resources of the *nzp-CSI-RS-ResourceSet* and/or *csi-SSB-ResourceSet*
within the CSI-Resource*Config* settings configured for L1-RSRP for the
active BWP, provided that the number of resources does not exceed the UE
capability indicated by *beamManagementSSB-CSI-RS*.

The UE shall report the measurement quantity (*reportQuantity*) and send
periodic, semi-persistent or aperiodic reports, according to the
*reportConfigType* according to the CSI reporting configuration(s)
(*CSI-ReportConfig*) for the active BWP.

In EN-DC and NE-DC operation, when the UE is configured to perform
E-UTRA SRS carrier-based switching an additional delay can be expected
in FR1 if the UE is capable of per-FR gap, or an additional delay can be
expected in both FR1 and FR2 if the UE is not capable of per-FR gap.

### 9.5.2 Requirements applicability

The requirements in clause 9.5 apply, provided:

> \- The CSI-RS or SSB or CSI-RS and SSB resources configured for
> L1-RSRP measurements are measurable.

An SSB resource configured for L1-RSRP shall be considered measurable
when for each relevant SSB the following conditions are met:

\- L1-RSRP related side conditions given in clauses 10.1.19.1 and
10.1.20.1 for FR1 and FR2, respectively, for a corresponding band,

\- SSB\_RP and SSB Ês/Iot according to Annex B.2.4.1 for a corresponding
band.

A CSI-RS resource configured for L1-RSRP shall be considered measurable
when for each relevant CSI-RS the following conditions are met:

\- L1-RSRP related side conditions given in clauses 10.1.19.2 and
10.1.20.2 for FR1 and FR2, respectively, for a corresponding band,

\- CSI-RS\_RP and CSI-RS Ês/Iot according to Annex B.2.4.2 for a
corresponding band.

A CSI-RS and SSB resource configured for L1-RSRP shall be considered
measurable when the measurable resource conditions are met for both
CSI-RS resource and SSB resource.

Requirements are defined for periodic, semi-persistent and aperiodic
resources.

### 9.5.3 Measurement Reporting Requirements

The UE shall send L1-RSRP reports only for report configurations
configured for the active BWP.

The UE shall report the L1-RSRP value as a 7-bit value in the range
\[-140, -44\] dBm with 1dB step size according to clause 10.1.19 for FR1
and 10.1.20 for FR2 if *nrofReportedRS is configured to one.* If
*nrofReportedRS is configured to be larger than one, or if
groupBasedBeamReporting is enabled,* the UE shall use differential
L1-RSRP based reporting as defined in clause 10.1.19 for FR1 and 10.1.20
for FR2. The differential L1-RSRP is quantized to a 4-bit value with 2dB
step size. The mapping between the reported L1-RSRP value and the
measured quantity is described in 10.1.6.

In EN-DC and NE-DC operation, when the UE is configured to perform
E-UTRA SRS carrier-based switching an additional delay can be expected
in FR1 if the UE is capable of per-FR gap, or an additional delay can be
expected in both FR1 and FR2 if the UE is not capable of per-FR gap.

#### 9.5.3.1 Periodic Reporting

Reported L1-RSRP measurements contained in periodic L1-RSRP measurement
reports shall meet the requirements in clauses 10.1.19 for FR1 and
10.1.20 for FR2, respectively.

The UE shall only send periodic L1-RSRP measurement reports for an
active BWP.

The UE shall transmit the periodic L1-RSRP reporting on PUCCH over the
air interface according to the periodicity defined in clause 5.2.1.4 in
TS 38.214 \[26\].

#### 9.5.3.2 Semi-Persistent Reporting

Reported L1-RSRP measurements contained in a Semi-Persistent L1-RSRP
measurement report shall meet the requirements in clauses 10.1.19 for
FR1 and 10.1.20 for FR2, respectively. This requirement applies for
semi-persistent L1-RSRP reports send on PUSCH or PUCCH.

The UE shall only send semi-persistent L1-RSRP measurement reports on
PUSCH, if a DCI request has been received.

The UE shall only send semi-persistent L1-RSRP measurement reports on
PUCCH, if an activation command \[7\] has been received.

The UE shall transmit the semi-persistent L1-RSRP reporting on PUSCH or
PUCCH over the air interface according to the periodicity defined in
clause 5.2.1.4 in TS 38.214 \[26\].

#### 9.5.3.3 Aperiodic Reporting

Reported L1-RSRP measurements contained in aperiodic triggered,
aperiodic triggered periodic and aperiodic triggered semi-persistent
L1-RSRP reports shall meet the requirements in clauses 10.1.19 for FR1
and 10.1.20 for FR2, respectively.

The UE shall only send aperiodic L1-RSRP measurement reports, if a DCI
trigger has been received.

After the UE receives CSI request in DCI, the UE shall transmit the
aperiodic L1-RSRP reporting on PUSCH over the air interface at the time
specified according to clause 6.1.2.1 in TS 38.214 \[26\].

### 9.5.4 L1-RSRP measurement requirements

#### 9.5.4.1 SSB based L1-RSRP Reporting

The UE shall be capable of performing L1-RSRP measurements based on the
configured SSB resource for L1-RSRP computation, and the UE physical
layer shall be capable of reporting L1-RSRP measured over the
measurement period of T~L1-RSRP\_Measurement\_Period\_SSB~.

The value of T~L1-RSRP\_Measurement\_Period\_SSB~ is defined in Table
9.5.4.1-1 for FR1 and Table 9.5.4.1-2 for FR2, where

\- M=1 if higher layer parameter *timeRestrictionForChannelMeasurement*
is configured, and M=3 otherwise

\- N= 8.

For FR1,

\- P=$\frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{\text{MRGP}}}$, when in the
monitored cell there are measurement gaps configured for
intra-frequency, inter-frequency or inter-RAT measurements, which are
overlapping with some but not all occasions of the SSB; and

\- P=1 when in the monitored cell there are no measurement gaps
overlapping with any occasion of the SSB.

For FR2,

\- P=$\frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{T_{\text{SMTCperiod}}}}$, when
SSB is not overlapped with measurement gap and SSB is partially
overlapped with SMTC occasion (T~SSB~ \< T~SMTCperiod~).

\- P is P~sharing\ factor~, when SSB is not overlapped with measurement
gap and SSB is fully overlapped with SMTC period (T~SSB~ =
T~SMTCperiod~).

\-
P=$\frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{\text{MGRP}} - \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{T_{\text{SMTCperiod}}}}$,
when SSB is partially overlapped with measurement gap and SSB is
partially overlapped with SMTC occasion (T~SSB~ \< T~SMTCperiod~) and
SMTC occasion is not overlapped with measurement gap and

\- T~SMTCperiod~ ≠ MGRP or

\- T~SMTCperiod~ = MGRP and T~SSB~ \< 0.5\*T~SMTCperiod~

\- P is
$\frac{P_{\text{sharing\ factor}}}{1 - \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{\text{MGRP}}}$,
when SSB is partially overlapped with measurement gap and SSB is
partially overlapped with SMTC occasion (T~SSB~ \< T~SMTCperiod~) and
SMTC occasion is not overlapped with measurement gap and T~SMTCperiod~ =
MGRP and T~SSB~ = 0.5\*T~SMTCperiod~

\-
P=$\ \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{min(T_{\text{SMTCperiod}},MGRP)}}$,
when SSB is partially overlapped with measurement gap (T~SSB~ \<MGRP)
and SSB is partially overlapped with SMTC occasion (T~SSB~ \<
T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC occasion is partially or fully overlapped with
measurement gap.

\- P is
$\ \frac{P_{\text{sharing\ factor}}}{1 - \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{\text{MRGP}}}$,
when SSB is partially overlapped with measurement gap and SSB is fully
overlapped with SMTC occasion (T~SSB~ = T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC occasion
is partially overlapped with measurement gap (T~SMTCperiod~ \< MGRP)

\- P~sharing\ factor~ = 1, if the SSB configured for L1-RSRP measurement
outside measurement gap is

\- not overlapped with the SSB symbols indicated by *SSB-ToMeasure* and
1 data symbol before each consecutive SSB symbols indicated by
*SSB-ToMeasure* and 1 data symbol after each consecutive SSB symbols
indicated by *SSB-ToMeasure*, given that *SSB-ToMeasure* is configured,
where the *SSB-ToMeasure* is the union set of *SSB-ToMeasure* from all
the configured measurement objects merged on the same serving carrier,
and,

\- not overlapped with the RSSI symbols indicated by
*ss-RSSI-Measurement* and 1data symbol before each RSSI symbol indicated
by *ss-RSSI-Measurement* and 1 data symbol after each RSSI symbol
indicated by *ss-RSSI-Measurement*, given that *ss-RSSI-Measurement* is
configured,

\- P~sharing\ factor~ = 3, otherwise.

Where:

\- T~SSB~ = ssb-periodicityServingCell

\- T~SMTCperiod~ = the configured SMTC period

If the high layer in TS 38.331 \[2\] signaling of *smtc2* is configured,
T~SMTCperiod~ corresponds to the value of higher layer parameter
*smtc2*; Otherwise T~SMTCperiod~ corresponds to the value of higher
layer parameter *smtc1*. T~SMTCperiod~ is the shortest SMTC period among
all CCs in the same FR2 band, provided the SMTC offset of all CCs in FR2
have the same offset.

Longer evaluation period would be expected if the combination of SSB,
SMTC occasion and measurement gap configurations does not meet pervious
conditions.

For either an FR1 or FR2 serving cell, longer evaluation period would be
expected during the period T~identify\_CGI~ when the UE is requested to
decode an NR CGI.

For either an FR1 or FR2 serving cell, longer L1 RSRP measurement period
would be expected during the period T~identify\_CGI,E-UTRAN~ when the UE
is requested to decode an LTE CGI.

Table 9.5.4.1-1: Measurement period T~L1-RSRP\_Measurement\_Period\_SSB~
for FR1

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Configuration                    | T~L1                             |
|                                  | -RSRP\_Measurement\_Period\_SSB~ |
|                                  | (ms)                             |
+==================================+==================================+
| non-DRX                          | max(T~Report~,                   |
|                                  | ceil(M\*P)\*T~SSB~)              |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                | max(T~Report~, ceil(K            |
|                                  | \*M\*P)\*max(T~DRX~,T~SSB~))     |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle \> 320ms               | ceil(M\*P)\*T~DRX~               |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Note 1: T~SSB~ =                 |                                  |
| ssb-periodicityServingCell is    |                                  |
| the periodicity of the SSB-Index |                                  |
| configured for L1-RSRP           |                                  |
| measurement. T~DRX~ is the DRX   |                                  |
| cycle length. T~Report~ is       |                                  |
| configured periodicity for       |                                  |
| reporting.                       |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Note 2: K = 1 when T~SSB~ ≤ 40   |                                  |
| ms and *highSpeedMeasFlag-r16*   |                                  |
| are configured; otherwise K =    |                                  |
| 1.5.                             |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Note 3: When                     |                                  |
| *highSpeedMeasFlag-r16* is       |                                  |
| configured, the requirements     |                                  |
| apply only to UE supporting      |                                  |
| either                           |                                  |
| *measurementEnhancement-r16* or  |                                  |
| *intr                            |                                  |
| aNR-MeasurementEnhancement-r16.* |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

Table 9.5.4.1-2: Measurement period T~L1-RSRP\_Measurement\_Period\_SSB~
for FR2

  Configuration                                                                                                                                                                                          T~L1-RSRP\_Measurement\_Period\_SSB~ (ms)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------------------------------------
  non-DRX                                                                                                                                                                                                max(T~Report~, ceil(M\*P\*N)\*T~SSB~)
  DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                                                                                                                                                                                      max(T~Report~, ceil(1.5\*M\*P\*N)\*max(T~DRX~,T~SSB~))
  DRX cycle \> 320ms                                                                                                                                                                                     ceil(1.5\*M\*P\*N)\*T~DRX~
  Note: T~SSB~ = ssb-periodicityServingCell is the periodicity of the SSB-Index configured for L1-RSRP measurement. T~DRX~ is the DRX cycle length. T~Report~ is configured periodicity for reporting.   

#### 9.5.4.2 CSI-RS based L1-RSRP Reporting

The UE shall be capable of performing L1-RSRP measurements based on the
configured CSI-RS resource for L1-RSRP computation, and the UE physical
layer shall be capable of reporting L1-RSRP measured over the
measurement period of T~L1-RSRP\_Measurement\_Period\_CSI-RS~.

The value of T~L1-RSRP\_Measurement\_Period\_CSI-RS~ is defined in Table
9.5.4.2-1 for FR1 and in Table 9.5.4.2-2 for FR2, where

\- For periodic and semi-persistent CSI-RS resources, M=1 if higher
layer parameter *timeRestrictionForChannelMeasurement* is configured,
and M=3 otherwise

\- For aperiodic CSI-RS resources M=1

\- For periodic CSI-RS resources in a resource set configured with
higher layer parameter *repetition* set to OFF, N=1. The requirements
apply if *qcl-InfoPeriodicCSI-RS* is configured for all the resources in
the resource set and for each resource one RS has QCL-TypeD with

\- SSB for L1-RSRP measurement, or

\- another CSI-RS in resource set configured with repetition ON.

\- For periodic CSI-RS resources in a resource set configured with
higher layer parameter *repetition* set to ON, N=ceil(*maxNumberRxBeam*
/ N~res\_per\_set~), where N~res\_per\_set~ is number of resources in
the resource set. The requirements apply provided
*qcl-InfoPeriodicCSI-RS* is configured with QCL-TypeD for all resources
in the resource set.

\- For semi-persistent CSI-RS resources in a resource set configured
with higher layer parameter *repetition* set to OFF, N=1. The
requirements apply provided TCI state is provided for all resources in
the resource set in the MAC CE activating the resource set and for each
resource one RS has QCL-TypeD with

\- SSB for L1-RSRP measurement, or

\- another CSI-RS in resource set configured with repetition ON.

\- For semi-persistent CSI-RS resources in a resource set configured
with higher layer parameter *repetition* set to ON,
N=ceil(*maxNumberRxBeam* / N~res\_per\_set~), where N~res\_per\_set~ is
number of resources in the resource set. The requirements apply provided
TCI state is provided with QCL-TypeD for all resources in the resource
set in the MAC CE activating the resource set.

\- For aperiodic CSI-RS resources in a resource set configured with
higher layer parameter *repetition* set to OFF, N=1. The requirements
apply provided *qcl-info* is configured for all resources in the
resource set and for each resource one RS has QCL-TypeD with

\- SSB for L1-RSRP measurement, or

\- another CSI-RS in resource set configured with repetition ON.

\- For aperiodic CSI-RS resources in a resource set configured with
higher layer parameter *repetition* set to ON, N=1. UE is not required
to meet the accuracy requirements in clause 10.1.19.2 and 10.1.20.2 if
number of resources in the resource set is smaller than
*maxNumberRxBeam*. The requirements apply provided *qcl-info* is
configured with QCL-TypeD for all resources in the resource set.

For FR1,

\- P=$\frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{\text{MGRP}}}$, when in the
monitored cell there are measurement gaps configured for
intra-frequency, inter-frequency or inter-RAT measurements, which are
overlapping with some but not all occasions of the CSI-RS; and

\- P=1 when in the monitored cell there are no measurement gaps
overlapping with any occasion of the CSI-RS.

For FR2,

\- P=1, when CSI-RS is not overlapped with measurement gap and also not
overlapped with SMTC occasion.

\- P=$\frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{\text{MGRP}}}$, when CSI-RS is
partially overlapped with measurement gap and CSI-RS is not overlapped
with SMTC occasion (T~CSI-RS~ \< MGRP)

\- P=$\frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{T_{\text{SMTCperiod}}}}$, when
CSI-RS is not overlapped with measurement gap and CSI-RS is partially
overlapped with SMTC occasion (T~CSI-RS~ \< T~SMTCperiod~).

\- P=P~sharing\ factor~, when CSI-RS is not overlapped with measurement
gap and CSI-RS is fully overlapped with SMTC occasion (T~CSI-RS~ =
T~SMTCperiod~).

\- P=1, when aperiodic CSI-RS resource is not overlapped with
measurement gap

\-
P=$\ \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{\text{MGRP}} - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{T_{\text{SMTCperiod}}}}$,
when CSI-RS is partially overlapped with measurement gap and CSI-RS is
partially overlapped with SMTC occasion (TCSI-RS \< T~SMTCperiod~) and
SMTC occasion is not overlapped with measurement gap and

\- T~SMTCperiod~ ≠ MGRP or

\- T~SMTCperiod~ = MGRP and T~CSI-RS~ \< 0.5\*T~SMTCperiod~

\- P=$\frac{3}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{\text{MGRP}}}$, when CSI-RS is
partially overlapped with measurement gap and CSI-RS is partially
overlapped with SMTC occasion (T~CSI-RS~ \< T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC
occasion is not overlapped with measurement gap and T~SMTCperiod~ = MGRP
and T~CSI-RS~ = 0.5\*T~SMTCperiod~

\-
P=$\text{\ \ }\frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{min(T_{\text{SMTCperiod}},MGRP)}}$,
when CSI-RS is partially overlapped with measurement gap (T~CSI-RS~ \<
MGRP) and CSI-RS is partially overlapped with SMTC occasion (T~CSI-RS~
\< T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC occasion is partially or fully overlapped
with measurement gap.

\-
P=$\frac{P_{\text{sharing\ factor}}}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{\text{MGRP}}}$,
when CSI-RS is partially overlapped with measurement gap and CSI-RS is
fully overlapped with SMTC occasion (T~CSI-RS~ = T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC
occasion is partially overlapped with measurement gap (T~SMTCperiod~ \<
MGRP)

\- P~sharing\ factor~ = 1, if the CSI-RS configured for L1-RSRP
measurement outside measurement gap is

\- not overlapped with the SSB symbols indicated by *SSB-ToMeasure* and
1 data symbol before each consecutive SSB symbols indicated by
*SSB-ToMeasure* and 1 data symbol after each consecutive SSB symbols
indicated by *SSB-ToMeasure*, given that *SSB-ToMeasure* is configured,
where the *SSB-ToMeasure* is the union set of *SSB-ToMeasure* from all
the configured measurement objects merged on the same serving carrier,
and,

\- not overlapped with the RSSI symbols indicated by
*ss-RSSI-Measurement* and 1data symbol before each RSSI symbol indicated
by *ss-RSSI-Measurement* and 1 data symbol after each RSSI symbol
indicated by *ss-RSSI-Measurement*, given that *ss-RSSI-Measurement* is
configured

\- P~sharing\ factor~ = 3, otherwise.

Where:

T~SMTCperiod~ = the configured SMTC period.

T~CSI-RS~ = the periodicity of CSI-RS configured for L1-RSRP measurement

If the high layer in TS 38.331 \[2\] signaling of *smtc2* is configured,
T~SMTCperiod~ corresponds to the value of higher layer parameter
*smtc2*; Otherwise T~SMTCperiod~ corresponds to the value of higher
layer parameter *smtc1*. T~SMTCperiod~ is the shortest SMTC period among
all CCs in the same FR2 band, provided the SMTC offset of all CCs in FR2
have the same offset.

Note: The overlap between CSI-RS for L1-RSRP measurement and SMTC means
that CSI-RS for L1-RSRP measurement is within the SMTC window duration.

Longer evaluation period would be expected if the combination of CSI-RS,
SMTC occasion and measurement gap configurations does not meet pervious
conditions.

For either an FR1 or FR2 serving cell, longer evaluation period would be
expected during the period T~identify\_CGI~ when the UE is requested to
decode an NR CGI.

For either an FR1 or FR2 serving cell, longer L1 RSRP measurement period
would be expected during the period T~identify\_CGI,E-UTRAN~ when the UE
is requested to decode an LTE CGI.

Table 9.5.4.2-1: Measurement period
T~L1-RSRP\_Measurement\_Period\_CSI-RS~ for FR1

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Configuration                    | T~L1-RS                          |
|                                  | RP\_Measurement\_Period\_CSI-RS~ |
|                                  | (ms)                             |
+==================================+==================================+
| non-DRX                          | max(T~Report~,                   |
|                                  | ceil(M\*P)\*T~CSI-RS~)           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                | max(T~Report~, ceil(K            |
|                                  | \*M\*P)\*max(T~DRX~,T~CSI-RS~))  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle \> 320ms               | ceil(M\*P)\*T~DRX~               |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Note 1: T~CSI-RS~ is the         |                                  |
| periodicity of CSI-RS configured |                                  |
| for L1-RSRP measurement. T~DRX~  |                                  |
| is the DRX cycle length.         |                                  |
| T~Report~ is configured          |                                  |
| periodicity for reporting.       |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Note 2: the requirements are     |                                  |
| applicable provided that the     |                                  |
| CSI-RS resource configured for   |                                  |
| L1-RSRP measurement is           |                                  |
| transmitted with Density = 3.    |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Note 3: K = 1 when T~CSI-RS~ ≤   |                                  |
| 40 ms and                        |                                  |
| *highSpeedMeasFlag-r16* are      |                                  |
| configured; otherwise K = 1.5.   |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Note 4: When                     |                                  |
| *highSpeedMeasFlag-r16* is       |                                  |
| configured, the requirements     |                                  |
| apply only to UE supporting      |                                  |
| either                           |                                  |
| *measurementEnhancement-r16* or  |                                  |
| *intr                            |                                  |
| aNR-MeasurementEnhancement-r16.* |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

Table 9.5.4.2-2: Measurement period
T~L1-RSRP\_Measurement\_Period\_CSI-RS~ for FR2

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Configuration                    | T~L1-RS                          |
|                                  | RP\_Measurement\_Period\_CSI-RS~ |
|                                  | (ms)                             |
+==================================+==================================+
| non-DRX                          | max(T~Report~,                   |
|                                  | ceil(M\*P\*N)\*T~CSI-RS~)        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                | max(T~Report~,                   |
|                                  | ceil(1.5\*                       |
|                                  | M\*P\*N)\*max(T~DRX~,T~CSI-RS~)) |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle \> 320ms               | ceil(M\*P\*N)\*T~DRX~            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Note 1: T~CSI-RS~ is the         |                                  |
| periodicity of CSI-RS configured |                                  |
| for L1-RSRP measurement. T~DRX~  |                                  |
| is the DRX cycle length.         |                                  |
| T~Report~ is configured          |                                  |
| periodicity for reporting.       |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Note 2: the requirements are     |                                  |
| applicable provided that the     |                                  |
| CSI-RS resource configured for   |                                  |
| L1-RSRP measurement is           |                                  |
| transmitted with Density = 3.    |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

### 9.5.4A Void

#### 9.5.4A.1 Void

### 9.5.5 Measurement restriction for CSI-RS and SSB for L1-RSRP measurement

The UE is required to be capable of measuring SSB and CSI-RS for L1-RSRP
without measurement gaps. The UE is required to perform the SSB and
CSI-RS measurements with measurement restrictions as described in the
following clauses.

#### 9.5.5.1 Measurement restriction for SSB based L1-RSRP

For FR1, when the SSB for L1-RSRP measurement is in the same OFDM symbol
as CSI-RS for RLM, BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement,

\- If SSB and CSI-RS have same SCS, UE shall be able to measure the SSB
for L1-RSRP measurement without any restriction;

\- If SSB and CSI-RS have different SCS,

\- If UE supports simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology, UE shall be able
to measure the SSB for L1-RSRP measurement without any restriction;

\- If UE does not support simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology, UE is
required to measure one of but not both SSB for L1-RSRP measurement and
CSI-RS. Longer measurement period for SSB based L1-RSRP measurement is
expected, and no requirements are defined.

For FR2, when the SSB for L1-RSRP measurement on one CC is in the same
OFDM symbol as CSI-RS for RLM, BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement on the
same CC or different CCs in the same band, UE is required to measure one
of but not both SSB for L1-RSRP measurement and CSI-RS. Longer
measurement period for SSB based L1-RSRP measurement is expected, and no
requirements are defined.

For FR2, if the network configures same or mixed numerology between SSB
for L1-RSRP measurement on one FR2 band and CSI-RS for RLM, BFD, CBD,
L1-RSRP or L1-SINR measurement on the other FR2 band, UE shall be able
to perform the related SSB based measurements in one band without any
measurement restrictions in the other band, provided that UE is capable
of independent beam management on this FR2 band pair.

#### 9.5.5.2 Measurement restriction for CSI-RS based L1-RSRP

For both FR1 and FR2, when the CSI-RS for L1-RSRP measurement is in the
same OFDM symbol as SSB for RLM, BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement, UE is
not required to receive CSI-RS for L1-RSRP measurement in the PRBs that
overlap with an SSB.

For FR1, when the SSB for RLM, BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement is within
the active BWP and has same SCS than CSI-RS for L1-RSRP measurement, the
UE shall be able to perform CSI-RS measurement without restrictions.

For FR1, when the SSB for RLM, BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement is within
the active BWP and has different SCS than CSI-RS for L1-RSRP
measurement, the UE shall be able to perform CSI-RS measurement with
restrictions according to its capabilities:

\- If the UE supports *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology* the UE
shall be able to perform CSI-RS measurement without restrictions.

\- If the UE does not support *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology*, UE
is required to measure one of but not both CSI-RS for L1-RSRP
measurement and SSB. Longer measurement period for CSI-RS based L1-RSRP
measurement is expected, and no requirements are defined.

For FR1, when the CSI-RS for L1-RSRP measurement is in the same OFDM
symbol as another CSI-RS for RLM, BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement, UE
shall be able to measure the CSI-RS for L1-RSRP measurement without any
restriction.

For FR2, when the CSI-RS for L1-RSRP measurement on one CC is in the
same OFDM symbol as SSB for RLM, BFD or L1-RSRP measurement on the same
CC or different CCs in the same band, or in the same symbol as SSB for
CBD measurement on the same CC or different CCs in the same band when
beam failure is detected, UE is required to measure one of but not both
CSI-RS for L1-RSRP measurement and SSB. Longer measurement period for
CSI-RS based L1-RSRP measurement is expected, and no requirements are
defined.

For FR2, when the CSI-RS for L1-RSRP measurement on one CC is in the
same OFDM symbol as another CSI-RS for RLM, BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP
measurement on the same CC or different CCs in the same band,

\- In the following cases, UE is required to measure one of but not both
CSI-RS for L1-RSRP measurement and the other CSI-RS. Longer measurement
period for CSI-RS based L1-RSRP measurement is expected, and no
requirements are defined.

\- The CSI-RS for L1-RSRP measurement or the other CSI-RS in a resource
set configured with repetition ON, or

\- The other CSI-RS is configured in q1 and beam failure is detected, or

\- The two CSI-RS-es are not QCL-ed w.r.t. QCL-TypeD, or the QCL
information is not known to UE,

\- Otherwise, UE shall be able to measure the CSI-RS for L1-RSRP
measurement without any restriction.

### 9.5.6 Scheduling availability of UE during L1-RSRP measurement

Scheduling availability restrictions when the UE is performing L1-RSRP
measurement are described in the following clauses.

#### 9.5.6.1 Scheduling availability of UE performing L1-RSRP measurement with a same subcarrier spacing as PDSCH/PDCCH on FR1

There are no scheduling restrictions due to L1-RSRP measurement
performed on SSB and CSI-RS configured as RS for L1-RSRP measurement
with the same SCS as PDSCH/PDCCH in FR1.

#### 9.5.6.2 Scheduling availability of UE performing L1-RSRP measurement with a different subcarrier spacing than PDSCH/PDCCH on FR1

For UEs which support *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology* \[14\]
there are no restrictions on scheduling availability due to L1-RSRP
measurement based on SSB as RS for L1-RSRP measurement. For UEs which do
not support *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology* \[14\] the following
restrictions apply due to L1-RSRP measurement based on SSB configured
for L1-RSRP measurement.

\- The UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS or receive
PDCCH/PDSCH/CSI-RS for tracking/CSI-RS for CQI on symbols corresponding
to the SSB indexes configured for L1-RSRP measurement.

When intra-band carrier aggregation in FR1 is configured, the scheduling
restrictions on serving cell where L1-RSRP measurement is performed
apply to all serving cells in the same band on the symbols that fully or
partially overlap with restricted symbols. When inter-band carrier
aggregation within FR1 is configured, there are no scheduling
restrictions on FR1 serving cell(s) configured in other bands than the
bands in which the serving cell where L1-RSRP measurement is performed
is configured.

#### 9.5.6.3 Scheduling availability of UE performing L1-RSRP measurement on FR2

The following scheduling restriction applies due to L1-RSRP measurement.

\- For the case where RS for L1-RSRP measurement is CSI-RS which is
QCLed with active TCI state for PDCCH/PDSCH and not in a CSI-RS resource
set with repetition ON, and N=1 applies as specified in clause 9.5.4.2

\- There are no scheduling restrictions due to L1-RSRP measurement
performed based on the CSI-RS.

\- Otherwise

\- The UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS or receive
PDCCH/PDSCH/CSI-RS for tracking/CSI-RS for CQI on

\- symbols corresponding to the SSB indexes configured for L1-RSRP
measurement, and/or

\- symbols corresponding to the periodic CSI-RS resource configured for
L1-RSRP measurement, and/or

\- symbols corresponding to the semi-perssitent CSI-RS resource
configured for L1-RSRP measurement when the resource is activated,
and/or

\- symbols corresponding to the aperiodic CSI-RS resource configured for
L1-RSRP measurement when the reporting is triggered.

When intra-band carrier aggregation in FR2 is performed, the scheduling
restrictions on serving cell where L1-RSRP measurement is performed
apply to all serving cells in the band on the symbols that fully or
partially overlap with restricted symbols.

When inter-band carrier aggregation in FR2 is performed, there are no
scheduling restrictions on FR2 serving cells in the bands due to L1-RSRP
measurement performed on FR2 serving cell(s) in different band(s),
provided that UE is capable of independent beam management on this FR2
band pair. Additionally, there is no scheduling restriction if the UE is
configured with different numerology between SSB on one FR2 band and
data on the other FR2 band provided the UE is configured for IBM
operation for the band pair.

If following conditions are met,

\- UE has been notified about system information update through paging,

\- The gap between UE's reception of PDCCH that UE monitors in the Type
2-PDCCH CSS set and that notifies system information update, and the
PDCCH that UE monitors in the Type0-PDCCH CSS set, is greater than 2
slots,

For the SSB and CORESET for RMSI scheduling multiplexing patterns 3, UE
is expected to receive the PDCCH that UE monitors in the Type0-PDCCH CSS
set, and the corresponding PDSCH, on SSB symbols to be measured for
L1-RSRP measurement; and

For the SSB and CORESET for RMSI scheduling multiplexing patterns 2, UE
is expected to receive PDSCH that corresponds to the PDCCH that UE
monitors in the Type0-PDCCH CSS set, on SSB symbols to be measured for
L1-RSRP measurement.

#### 9.5.6.4 Scheduling availability of UE performing L1-RSRP measurement on FR1 or FR2 in case of FR1-FR2 inter-band CA

There are no scheduling restrictions on FR1 serving cell(s) due to
L1-RSRP measurement performed on FR2 serving cell(s).

There are no scheduling restrictions on FR2 serving cell(s) due to
L1-RSRP measurement performed on FR1 serving cell(s).

9.5A L1-RSRP measurements for Reporting under CCA
-------------------------------------------------

### 9.5A.1 Introduction

When configured by the network, the UE shall be able to perform L1-RSRP
measurements of configured SSB resources for L1-RSRP. The measurements
shall be performed for a serving cell under CCA operating mode,
including PCell, PSCell, or SCell, on the resources configured for
L1-RSRP measurements within the active BWP.

The UE shall be able to measure all SSB resources of the
*csi-SSB-ResourceSet* within the *CSI-ResourceConfig* settings
configured for L1-RSRP for the active BWP, provided that the number of
resources does not exceed the UE capability indicated by
*beamManagementSSB-CSI-RS*.

The UE shall report the measurement quantity (*reportQuantity*) and send
periodic, semi-persistent or aperiodic reports, according to the
*reportConfigType* according to the CSI reporting configuration(s)
(*CSI-ReportConfig*) for the active BWP.

In EN-DC operation, when the UE is configured to perform E-UTRA SRS
carrier-based switching an additional delay can be expected.

The requirements in clause 9.5A apply for any *channelAccessMode*
configuration \[TS 38.331, 2\].

In the requirements of clause 9.5A, the term SSB occasion not available
at the UE refers to when the SSB is configured by gNB in a cell on a
carrier frequency subject to CCA, but the first two successive candidate
SSB positions for the same SS/PBCH block index within the set of
configured SSB are not available at the UE due to DL CCA failures at gNB
during the corresponding evaluation or measurement period; otherwise the
SSB occasion is considered as available at the UE.

### 9.5A.2 Requirements applicability

The requirements in clause 9.5A apply, provided:

\- The SSB resources configured for L1-RSRP measurements are measurable.

An SSB resource configured for L1-RSRP shall be considered measurable
when for each relevant SSB the following conditions are met:

\- L1-RSRP related side conditions given in clause 10.1.19.1 for FR1 for
a corresponding band,

\- SSB\_RP and SSB Ês/Iot according to Annex B.2.4.1 for a corresponding
band.

An SSB resource configured for L1-RSRP shall be considered measurable
when the measurable resource conditions are met for SSB resource.

Requirements are defined for periodic, semi-persistent and aperiodic
resources.

### 9.5A.3 Measurement Reporting Requirements

The UE shall send L1-RSRP reports only for report configurations
configured for the active BWP.

The UE shall report the L1-RSRP value as a 7-bit value in the range
\[-140, -44\] dBm with 1dB step size according to clause 10.1.19 if
*nrofReportedRS is configured to one.* If *nrofReportedRS is configured
to be larger than one, or if groupBasedBeamReporting is enabled,* the UE
shall use differential L1-RSRP based reporting as defined in clause
10.1.19. The differential L1-RSRP is quantized to a 4-bit value with 2dB
step size. The mapping between the reported L1-RSRP value and the
measured quantity is described in 10.1.6.

In EN-DC operation, when the UE is configured to perform E-UTRA SRS
carrier-based switching an additional delay can be expected if the UE is
capable of per-FR gap, or an additional delay can be expected.

#### 9.5A.3.1 Periodic Reporting

Reported L1-RSRP measurements contained in periodic L1-RSRP measurement
reports shall meet the requirements in clauses 10.1.19.

The UE shall only send periodic L1-RSRP measurement reports for an
active BWP.

The UE shall transmit the periodic L1-RSRP reporting on PUCCH over the
air interface according to the periodicity defined in clause 5.2.1.4 in
TS 38.214 \[26\].

#### 9.5A.3.2 Semi-Persistent Reporting

Reported L1-RSRP measurements contained in a Semi-Persistent L1-RSRP
measurement report shall meet the requirements in clauses 10.1.19. This
requirement applies for semi-persistent L1-RSRP reports send on PUSCH or
PUCCH.

The UE shall only send semi-persistent L1-RSRP measurement reports on
PUSCH, if a DCI request has been received.

The UE shall only send semi-persistent L1-RSRP measurement reports on
PUCCH, if an activation command \[7\] has been received.

The UE shall transmit the semi-persistent L1-RSRP reporting on PUSCH or
PUCCH over the air interface according to the periodicity defined in
clause 5.2.1.4 in TS 38.214 \[26\].

When CCA is used on target frequency, if UE cannot transmit HARQ-ACK for
the MAC CE activation command due to UL CCA failure, the UE shall not
perform MAC CE activation at the MAC action time based on the originally
scheduled HARQ-ACK transmission time specified in clause 5.2.1.5.2 in TS
38.214 \[26\].

When CCA is used on target frequency, if UE cannot transmit HARQ-ACK for
the MAC CE deactivation command due to UL CCA failure, the UE shall
perform MAC CE deactivation at the MAC action time based on the
originally scheduled HARQ-ACK transmission time specified in clause
5.2.1.5.2 in TS 38.214 \[26\].

#### 9.5A.3.3 Aperiodic Reporting

Reported L1-RSRP measurements contained in aperiodic triggered,
aperiodic triggered periodic and aperiodic triggered semi-persistent
L1-RSRP reports shall meet the requirements in clauses 10.1.19.

The UE shall only send aperiodic L1-RSRP measurement reports, if a DCI
trigger has been received.

After the UE receives CSI request in DCI, the UE shall transmit the
aperiodic L1-RSRP reporting on PUSCH over the air interface at the time
specified according to clause 6.1.2.1 in TS 38.214 \[26\].

### 9.5A.4 L1-RSRP measurement requirements

#### 9.5A.4.1 SSB based L1-RSRP Reporting

The UE shall be capable of performing L1-RSRP measurements based on the
configured SSB resource for L1-RSRP computation, and the UE physical
layer shall be capable of reporting L1-RSRP measured over the
measurement period of T~L1-RSRP\_Measurement\_Period\_SSB\_CCA~.

The value of T~L1-RSRP\_Measurement\_Period\_SSB\_CCA~ is defined in
Table 9.5A.4.1-1 for FR1, where

\- M=1 if higher layer parameter *timeRestrictionForChannelMeasurement*
is configured, and M=3 otherwise

For FR1,

\- P=$\frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{\text{SSB}}}{\text{MRGP}}}$, when in the
monitored cell there are measurement gaps configured for
intra-frequency, inter-frequency or inter-RAT measurements, which are
overlapping with some but not all occasions of the SSB; and

\- P=1 when in the monitored cell there are no measurement gaps
overlapping with any occasion of the SSB.

Where:

T~SSB~ = ssb-periodicityServingCell

T~SMTCperiod~ = the configured SMTC1 period or SMTC2 period if
configured

If the high layer in TS 38.331 \[2\] signaling of *smtc2* is configured,
T~SMTCperiod~ corresponds to the value of higher layer parameter
*smtc2*; Otherwise T~SMTCperiod~ corresponds to the value of higher
layer parameter *smtc1*.

Longer evaluation period would be expected if the combination of SSB,
SMTC occasion and measurement gap configurations does not meet pervious
conditions.

UE shall report RSRP\_0 (Not valid) if L~1~\>L~1max~, where L1 and
L1~max~ are defined in Table 9.5A.4.1-1.

Table 9.5A.4.1-1: Measurement period
T~L1-RSRP\_Measurement\_Period\_SSB\_CCA~ for FR1

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Configuration                    | T~L1-RSRP                        |
|                                  | \_Measurement\_Period\_SSB\_CCA~ |
|                                  | (ms)                             |
+==================================+==================================+
| non-DRX                          | max(T~Report~,                   |
|                                  | ceil((M+L1)\*P)\*T~SSB~)         |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                | max(T~Report~,                   |
|                                  | ceil(1.5\                        |
|                                  | *(M+L1)\*P)\*max(T~DRX~,T~SSB~)) |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle \> 320ms               | ceil((M+L1)\*P)\*T~DRX~          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Note 1: T~SSB~ =                 |                                  |
| ssb-periodicityServingCell is    |                                  |
| the periodicity of the SSB-Index |                                  |
| configured for L1-RSRP           |                                  |
| measurement. T~DRX~ is the DRX   |                                  |
| cycle length.\                   |                                  |
| T~Report~ is configured          |                                  |
| periodicity for reporting.       |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Note 2: **L1=0 if higher layer   |                                  |
| parameter                        |                                  |
| time                             |                                  |
| RestrictionForChannelMeasurement |                                  |
| is configured. Otherwise, when   |                                  |
| DRX is not configured L1 is the  |                                  |
| number of SSBs not available at  |                                  |
| the UE during                    |                                  |
| T~L1-RSRP\                       |                                  |
| _Measurement\_Period\_SSB\_CCA~, |                                  |
| and when DRX is configured L1 is |                                  |
| the number of DRX cycles in      |                                  |
| which at least one SSB is not    |                                  |
| available at the UE during       |                                  |
| T~L1-RSRP\                       |                                  |
| _Measurement\_Period\_SSB\_CCA~, |                                  |
| where L1 ≤ L1~max~. The UE** is  |                                  |
| not required to determine the    |                                  |
| availability of SSB occasions    |                                  |
| more frequent than\              |                                  |
| Once per Max(T~Report~, P \*     |                                  |
| T~SSB~) if no DRX is used,\      |                                  |
| Once per Max(T~Report~, Ceil(1.5 |                                  |
| \* P) \* Max(T~DRX~, T~SSB~)) if |                                  |
| DRX cycle ≤ 320ms,\              |                                  |
| Once per P \* T~DRX~ if DRX      |                                  |
| cycle \> 320ms.                  |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Note 3: L1~max~ =7 for           |                                  |
| Max(T~DRX~,T~SSB~) ≤ 40ms        |                                  |
| assuming T~DRX~=0 for non-DRX,\  |                                  |
| L1~max~ =5 for 40ms \<           |                                  |
| Max(T~DRX~, T~SSB~) ≤ 320ms,\    |                                  |
| L1~max~ =3 for T~DRX~ \> 320ms.  |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

### 9.5A.5 Measurement restriction for L1-RSRP measurement

The UE is required to be capable of measuring SSB for L1-RSRP without
measurement gaps. The UE is required to perform the SSB measurements
with measurement restrictions as described in the following clauses.

#### 9.5A.5.1 Measurement restriction for SSB based L1-RSRP

When the SSB for L1-RSRP measurement is in the same OFDM symbol as
CSI-RS for RLM, BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement,

\- If SSB and CSI-RS have same SCS, UE shall be able to measure the SSB
for L1-RSRP measurement without any restriction;

\- If SSB and CSI-RS have different SCS,

\- If UE supports simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology, UE shall be able
to measure the SSB for L1-RSRP measurement without any restriction;

\- If UE does not support simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology, UE is
required to measure SSB for L1-RSRP measurement.

### 9.5A.6 Scheduling availability of UE during L1-RSRP measurement

Scheduling availability restrictions when the UE is performing L1-RSRP
measurement are described in the following clauses.

#### 9.5A.6.1 Scheduling availability of UE performing L1-RSRP measurement with a same subcarrier spacing as PDSCH/PDCCH

There are no scheduling restrictions due to L1-RSRP measurement
performed on SSB configured as RS for L1-RSRP measurement with the same
SCS as PDSCH/PDCCH.

#### 9.5A.6.2 Scheduling availability of UE performing L1-RSRP measurement with a different subcarrier spacing than PDSCH/PDCCH

For UEs which support *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology* \[14\]
there are no restrictions on scheduling availability due to L1-RSRP
measurement based on SSB as RS for L1-RSRP measurement. For UEs which do
not support *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology* \[14\] the following
restrictions apply due to L1-RSRP measurement based on SSB configured
for L1-RSRP measurement.

\- The UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS or receive
PDCCH/PDSCH/CSI-RS for tracking/CSI-RS for CQI on symbols corresponding
to the SSB indexes configured for L1-RSRP measurement.

When intra-band carrier aggregation is configured, the scheduling
restrictions on serving cell where L1-RSRP measurement is performed
apply to all serving cells in the same band on the symbols that fully or
partially overlap with restricted symbols. When inter-band carrier
aggregation is configured, there are no scheduling restrictions serving
cell(s) configured in other bands than the bands in which the serving
cell where L1-RSRP measurement is performed is configured.

#### 9.5A.6.3 Scheduling availability of UE performing L1-RSRP measurement in case of FR1-FR2 inter-band CA

There are no scheduling restrictions on FR2 serving cell(s) due to
L1-RSRP measurement performed on serving cell(s) under CCA.

9.6 NE-DC: Measurements 
-----------------------

### 9.6.1 Introduction

This clause contains requirements for UE supporting dual connectivity
with NR PCell and E-UTRA FDD or TDD PSCell. The requirements apply to
UEs that have been configured with NE-DC.

### 9.6.2 SFTD Measurements

#### 9.6.2.1 Introduction

This clause contains requirements on UE capabilities for reporting of
SFN and frame time difference between NR PCell and E-UTRA PSCell in
RRC\_CONNECTED state. The requirements comprise measurement reporting
delay and measurement accuracy. The overall measurement reporting delay
includes a RRC procedure delay specified in TS 38.331 \[2\], and the
SFTD measurement reporting delay specified below.

#### 9.6.2.2 SFTD Measurement requirements

When no DRX is used in either of the NR PCell and E-UTRA PSCell, the
physical layer measurement period of the SFTD measurement shall be
T~measure\_SFTD1~ = max(0.2, 5 \* SMTC period) s.

When DRX is used in either of the NR PCell or the E-UTRA PSCell, or in
both PCell and PSCell, the physical layer measurement period
(T~measure\_SFTD1~) of the SFTD measurement shall be as specified in
Table 9.6.2.2-1.

Table 9.6.2.2-1: SFTD measurement requirement when DRX is used

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle length (s)^Note2^      | T~measure\_SFTD1~ (s)            |
+==================================+==================================+
| DRX cycle≤0.04                   | max(0.2,5 x SMTC period) (Note1) |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 0.04\<DRX cycle≤0.32             | 8 x max(DRX cycle, SMTC period)  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 0.32\<DRX cycle≤10.24            | 5 x DRX cycle                    |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Note1: Number of DRX cycles      |                                  |
| depends upon the DRX cycle in    |                                  |
| use                              |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Note2: DRX cycle length in this  |                                  |
| table refers to the DRX cycle    |                                  |
| length configured for PCell or   |                                  |
| PSCell. When DRX is used in both |                                  |
| PCell and PSCell, DRX cycle      |                                  |
| length in this table refers to   |                                  |
| the longer of the DRX cycle      |                                  |
| lengths for PCell and PSCell.    |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

If PSCell is changed without changing carrier frequency of PSCell while
the UE is performing SFTD measurements, the UE shall still meet SFTD
measurement and accuracy requirements for the new PSCell. In this case
the UE shall restart the SFTD measurement, and the total physical layer
measurement period shall not exceed T~measure\_SFTD2~ as defined by the
following expression:

T~measure\_SFTD2~ = (M+1)\*(T~measure\_SFTD1~) +
M\*T~PSCell\_change\_NEDC~

where:

M is the number of times the E-UTRA PSCell is changed over the
measurement period (T~measure\_SFTD2~), and

T~PSCell\_change\_NEDC~ is the time necessary to change the PSCell; it
can be up to 25 ms.

If PCell is changed, or if PSCell is changed to a different carrier
frequency, the UE shall terminate the SFTD measurement.

The measurement accuracy for the SFTD measurement when DRX is used as
well as when no DRX is used shall be as specified in clause 10.1.21.1.

9.7 Cross Link Interference measurements 
----------------------------------------

### 9.7.1 Introduction

The UE capable of performing CLI measurements shall be able to measure
SRS-RSRP and CLI-RSSI which are defined in TS38.215 \[4\] within active
DL BWP. The measurements requirements in this clause apply for TDD mode
only.

CLI measurements are only applicable for RRC\_CONNECTED intra-frequency:

\- when SRS-RSRP measurement resource is fully confined within BW of DL
active BWP

\- when CLI-RSSI measurement resouce is configured within active BWP

When the UE measures SRS-RSRP and CLI-RSSI, a constant offset relative
to the downlink reference timing in the serving cell shall be applied.
The constant offset value is derived by UE implementation and shall be
at least Tc\*N~TA\_offset~.

For performing CLI measurement in FR2, UE can assume the configured CLI
measurement resources are QCL-ed with TypeD to one of the latest
received PDSCH and the latest monitored CORESET.

CLI measurement requirements defined in clause 9.7 are applicable if

\- CLI measurement is not performed on an NR carrier in the same band as
E-UTRA serving carrier; and

\- UE supports simultaneous Rx/Tx for inter-band CA, inter-band EN-DC,
inter-band NE-DC, and NR-DC.

### 9.7.2 SRS-RSRP measurements

#### 9.7.2.1 Introduction

When configured by the network, the UE shall be able to perform SRS-RSRP
measurements of configured *srs-ResourceConfigCLI*. The requirements
apply when the subcarrier spacing for SRS-RSRP measurement resource
configuration is the same as the subcarrier spacing of the active DL BWP
of serving cell. The UE is not required to measure SRS using different
SCS compared to the downlink active BWP SCS of the same carrier.

#### 9.7.2.2 Requirements applicability

The requirements in clause 9.7.2 apply, provided:

\- SRS resources configured for SRS-RSRP measurements are measurable.

An SRS resource configured for SRS-RSRP shall be considered measurable
when for each relevant SRS the following conditions are met:

\- SRS-RSRP related side conditions given in clauses 10.1.22.1 for FR1
and FR2 for a corresponding band,

\- SRS\_RP and SRS Ês/Iot according to Annex B.2.7 for a corresponding
band.

#### 9.7.2.3 Measurement Reporting Requirements

The UE shall send SRS-RSRP reports only for report configurations
according to *reportType* which is *cliPeriodical* or
*cliEventTriggered* when SRS-RSRP report is configured.

The UE shall report the SRS-RSRP value as a 7-bit value in the range
\[-140, -44\] dBm with 1dB step size according to clause 10.1.22.1 for
FR1 and FR2.

##### 9.7.2.3.1 Periodic Reporting

Reported SRS-RSRP measurements contained in periodically triggered
measurement reports shall meet the requirements in clause 10.1.22.1.

##### 9.7.2.3.2 Event-triggered Periodic Reporting 

Reported SRS-RSRP measurements contained in periodically triggered
measurement reports shall meet the requirements in clauses 10.1.22.1.

The first report in event triggered periodic measurement reporting shall
meet the requirements specified in clause 9.7.2.3.3.

##### 9.7.2.3.3 Event Triggered Reporting

Reported SRS-RSRP measurements contained in periodically triggered
measurement reports shall meet the requirements in clause 10.1.22.1.

The UE shall not send any event triggered measurement reports as long as
no reporting criteria is fulfilled.

The measurement reporting delay is defined as the time between an event
that will trigger a measurement report and the point when the UE starts
to transmit the measurement report over the air interface. This
requirement assumes that the measurement report is not delayed by other
RRC signalling on the DCCH. This measurement reporting delay excludes a
delay uncertainty resulted when inserting the measurement report to the
TTI of the uplink DCCH. The delay uncertainty is: 2 x TTI~DCCH~. This
measurement reporting delay excludes a delay which caused by no UL
resources for UE to send the measurement report on.

#### 9.7.2.4 Measurement capability

The UE shall be capable of performing SRS-RSRP measurements on the SRS
resources configured for measurement, provided that the number of SRS to
be monitored by UE does not exceed 8 within a slot, and the total number
of SRSs to be monitored by the UE does not exceed 32.

#### 9.7.2.5 SRS-RSRP measurement period

The UE shall be capable of performing SRS-RSRP measurement based on the
configured SRS resource, and the UE shall be capable of reporting
SRS-RSRP measured over measurement period of
T~SRS\_RSRP\_measurement\_period~ for FR1 and FR2.

Table 9.7.2.5‑1 Measurement period T~SRS\_RSRP\_measurement\_period~

  Configuration                                                                                                            T~SRS\_measurement\_period~ (ms)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------------
  No DRX                                                                                                                   Max(60, 3 X T~SRS~)
  DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                                                                                                        Max(60, Ceil(1.5 X 3) X max(T~SRS~, T~DRX~))
  DRX cycle \> 320ms                                                                                                       3 X T~DRX~
  Note: T~SRS~ is SRS measurement periodicity configured *SRS-PeriodicityAndOffset*, and T~DRX~ is the DRX cycle length.   

If the SRS resources configured for measurement are partially or fully
overlapping with SMTC window, SSB or CSI-RS configured for RLM, BFD, CBD
or L1-RSRP measurement or measurement gaps, requirements are not
specified for T~SRS\_RSRP\_measurement\_period.~

### 9.7.3 CLI-RSSI measurements

#### 9.7.3.1 Introduction

When configured by the network, the UE shall be able to perform CLI-RSSI
measurement of configured *rssi-ResourceConfigCLI*. The subcarrier
spacing for CLI-RSSI measurement resource configuration can be same or
different from the subcarrier spacing of active BWP. UE shall perform
CLI-RSSI measurement with the SCS of the active BWP.

#### 9.7.3.2 Requirements applicability

The requirements in clause 9.7.3 apply, provided:

\- The measurement resources configured for CLI-RSSI measurements are
measurable.

A measurement resource configured for CLI-RSSI shall be considered
measurable when for each relevant CLI-RSSI resource the following
conditions are met:

\- CLI-RSSI related side conditions given in clauses 10.1.22.2 for FR1
and FR2 for a corresponding band.

#### 9.7.3.3 Measurement Reporting Requirements

The UE shall send CLI-RSSI reports only for report configurations
according to *reportType* which is *cliPeriodical* or
*cliEventTriggered* when CLI-RSSI report is configured.

The UE shall report the CLI-RSSI value as a 7-bit value in the range
\[-100, -25\] dBm with 1dB step size according to clause 10.1.22.2 for
FR1 and FR2.

##### 9.7.3.3.1 Periodic Reporting

Reported CLI-RSSI measurements contained in periodically triggered
measurement reports shall meet the requirements in clause 10.1.22.2.

##### 9.7.3.3.2 Event-triggered Periodic Reporting 

Reported CLI-RSSI measurements contained in periodically triggered
measurement reports shall meet the requirements in clauses 10.1.22.2.

The first report in event triggered periodic measurement reporting shall
meet the requirements specified in clause 9.7.3.3.3.

##### 9.7.3.3.3 Event Triggered Reporting

Reported CLI-RSSI measurements contained in periodically triggered
measurement reports shall meet the requirements in clause 10.1.22.2.

The UE shall not send any event triggered measurement reports as long as
no reporting criteria is fulfilled.

The measurement reporting delay is defined as the time between an event
that will trigger a measurement report and the point when the UE starts
to transmit the measurement report over the air interface. This
requirement assumes that the measurement report is not delayed by other
RRC signalling on the DCCH. This measurement reporting delay excludes a
delay uncertainty resulted when inserting the measurement report to the
TTI of the uplink DCCH. The delay uncertainty is: 2 x TTI~DCCH~. This
measurement reporting delay excludes a delay which caused by no UL
resources for UE to send the measurement report on.

#### 9.7.3.4 Measurement capability

The UE should be capable of performing CLI-RSSI measurement based on the
configured resource, provided that the maximum number of CLI-RSSI
measurement resources for the UE does not exceed 64.

#### 9.7.3.5 CLI-RSSI measurement period

The UE shall be capable of performing CLI-RSSI measurement based on the
configured measurement resource within
T~CLI\_RSSI\_measurement\_period~. The UE shall be able to provide a
single RSSI sample for each measurement resource configured for CLI-RSSI
measurement occurring with a configured periodicity. The CLI-RSSI
measurement period T~CLI\_RSSI\_measurement\_period~ corresponds to the
CLI-RSSI measurement resource periodicity, which is configured for by
higher layers via *RSSI-PeriodicityAndOffset*.

If the CLI-RSSI measurement resources configured for measurement are
partially or fully overlapping with SMTC window, SSB or CSI-RS
configured for RLM, BFD, CBD or L1-RSRP measurement or measurement gaps,
requirements are not specified for T~CLI\_RSSI\_measurement\_period.~

### 9.7.4 Scheduling availability of UE during CLI measurements

Scheduling availability restrictions when the UE is performing CLI
measurements which are SRS-RSRP and CLI-RSSI are described in the
following clause.

#### 9.7.4.1 Scheduling availability of UE performing measurement on FR1

The following scheduling restriction applies due to CLI measurements.

\- The UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS on OFDM symbols on
which the UE performs CLI measurements, and on 1 data symbol before an
OFDM symbol used for CLI measurements for 15 kHz and 30 kHz subcarrier
spacing.

\- For the UE which does not support *cli-SRS-RSRP-FDM\_DL*, the UE is
not expected to receive PDCCH/PDSCH/CSI-RS for tracking/CSI-RS for CQI
on OFDM symbols on which the UE performs SRS-RSRP measurements, and on 1
data symbol before an OFDM symbol used for SRS-RSRP measurements for 15
kHz and 30 kHz subcarrier spacing.

\- For the UE which does not support *cli-RSSI-FDM-DL*, the UE is not
expected to receive PDCCH/PDSCH/CSI-RS for tracking/CSI-RS for CQI on
OFDM symbols on which the UE performs CLI-RSSI measurements, and on 1
data symbol before an OFDM symbol used for CLI-RSSI measurements for 15
kHz and 30 kHz subcarrier spacing.

\- The UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS on OFDM symbols on
which the UE performs CLI measurement, and on 2 data symbols before an
OFDM symbol used for CLI measurements for 60 kHz subcarrier spacing.

\- For the UE which does not support *cli-SRS-RSRP-FDM\_DL*, the UE is
not expected to receive PDCCH/PDSCH/CSI-RS for tracking/CSI-RS for CQI
on OFDM symbols on which the UE performs SRS-RSRP measurement, and on 2
data symbols before an OFDM symbol used for SRS-RSRP measurements for 60
kHz subcarrier spacing.

\- For the UE which does not support *cli-RSSI-FDM-DL*, the UE is not
expected to receive PDCCH/PDSCH/CSI-RS for tracking/CSI-RS for CQI on
OFDM symbols on which the UE performs CLI-RSSI measurement, and on 2
data symbols before an OFDM symbol used for CLI-RSSI measurements for 60
kHz subcarrier spacing.

When TDD intra-band carrier aggregation is configured, the scheduling
restrictions on serving cell where CLI measurements are performed apply
on all serving cells in the same band on the symbols that fully or
partially overlap with restricted symbols.

#### 9.7.4.2 Scheduling availability of UE performing measurement on FR2

The following scheduling restriction applies due to CLI measurements.

\- The UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS on OFDM symbols on
which the UE performs CLI measurements, and on 1 data symbol before an
OFDM symbol used for CLI measurements for 60 kHz subcarrier spacing.

\- For the UE which does not support *cli-SRS-RSRP-FDM\_DL*, the UE is
not expected to receive PDCCH/PDSCH/CSI-RS for tracking/CSI-RS for CQI
on OFDM symbols on which the UE performs SRS-RSRP measurements, and on 1
data symbol before an OFDM symbol used for SRS-RSRP measurements for 60
kHz subcarrier spacing.

\- For the UE which does not support *cli-RSSI-FDM-DL*, the UE is not
expected to receive PDCCH/PDSCH/CSI-RS for tracking/CSI-RS for CQI on
OFDM symbols on which the UE performs CLI-RSSI measurements, and on 1
data symbol before an OFDM symbol used for CLI-RSSI measurements for 60
kHz subcarrier spacing.

\- The UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS on OFDM symbols on
which the UE performs CLI measurements, and on 2 data symbols before an
OFDM symbol used for CLI measurements for 120 kHz subcarrier spacing.

\- For the UE which does not support *cli-SRS-RSRP-FDM\_DL*, the UE is
not expected to receive PDCCH/PDSCH/CSI-RS for tracking/CSI-RS for CQI
on OFDM symbols on which the UE performs SRS-RSRP measurements, and on 2
data symbols before an OFDM symbol used for SRS-RSRP measurements for
120 kHz subcarrier spacing.

\- For the UE which does not support *cli-RSSI-FDM-DL*, the UE is not
expected to receive PDCCH/PDSCH/CSI-RS for tracking/CSI-RS for CQI on
OFDM symbols on which the UE performs CLI-RSSI measurements, and on 2
data symbols before an OFDM symbol used for CLI-RSSI measurements for
120 kHz subcarrier spacing.

When TDD intra-band carrier aggregation is configured, the scheduling
restrictions on serving cell where CLI measurements are performed apply
on all serving cells in the same band on the symbols that fully or
partially overlap with restricted symbols.

9.8 L1-SINR measurements for Reporting
--------------------------------------

### 9.8.1 Introduction

When configured by the network, the UE shall be able to perform L1-SINR
measurements with the measurement resources configured as the selection
of:

\- CSI-RS based CMR and no dedicated IMR configured;

\- SSB based CMR and dedicated IMR configured;

\- CSI-RS based CMR and dedicated IMR configured.

The measurements shall be performed for a serving cell, including PCell,
PSCell, or SCell, on the resources configured for L1-SINR measurements
within the active BWP.

The UE shall be able to measure all CSI-RS resources and/or SSB
resources and/or CSI-IM resources of the *nzp-CSI-RS-ResourceSet* and/or
*csi-SSB-ResourceSet and/or CSI-IM-ResourceSet* within the
*CSI-ResourceConfig* settings for L1-SINR for the active BWP and measure
interference on corresponding NZP CSI-RS or CSI-IM resources if
configured, provided that the number of resources does not exceed the UE
capability indicated by *beamManagementSSB-CSI-RS*.

The UE shall report the measurement quantity (*reportQuantity*) and send
periodic, semi-persistent or aperiodic reports, according to the
*reportConfigType* according to the CSI reporting configuration(s)
(*CSI-ReportConfig*) for the active BWP.

### 9.8.2 Requirements applicability

The requirements in clause 9.8 apply, provided:

\- CMR resources configured for L1-SINR measurements are measurable, and

\- NZP-IMR resources configured for L1-SINR measurements if applicable
are measurable.

Requirements are defined for periodic, semi-persistent and aperiodic
resources.

For CSI-RS based CMR and no dedicated IMR configured, a CSI-RS resource
configured for L1-SINR shall be considered measurable when for each
relevant CSI-RS the following conditions are met:

\- L1-SINR related side conditions given in clauses 10.1.27 and 10.1.28
for FR1 and FR2, respectively, for a corresponding band,

\- CSI-RS\_RP and CSI-RS Ês/Iot according to Annex B.2.8.1 for a
corresponding band.

For SSB based CMR and dedicated IMR configured, a SSB and a dedicated
IMR configured for L1-SINR shall be considered measurable when for each
relevant SSB and IMR the following conditions are met:

> \- L1-SINR related side conditions given in clauses 10.1.27 and
> 10.1.28 for FR1 and FR2, respectively, for a corresponding band,
>
> \- SSB\_RP and SSB Ês/Iot according to Annex B.2.8.2 for a
> corresponding band.
>
> \- NZP-IMR Ês/Iot according to Annex B.2.8.2 for a corresponding band,
> if NZP-IMR is configured as dedicated IMR.

For CSI-RS based CMR and dedicated IMR configured, a CSI-RS and a
dedicated IMR configured for L1-SINR shall be considered measurable when
for each relevant CSI-RS and IMR the following conditions are met:

> \- L1-SINR related side conditions given in clauses 10.1.27 and
> 10.1.28 for FR1 and FR2, respectively, for a corresponding band,
>
> \- CSI-RS\_RP and CSI-RS Ês/Iot according to Annex B.2.8.3 for a
> corresponding band
>
> \- NZP-IMR Ês/Iot according to Annex B.2.8.3 for a corresponding band,
> if NZP-IMR is configured as dedicated IMR.

### 9.8.3 Measurement Reporting Requirements

The UE shall send L1-SINR reports only for report configurations
configured for the active BWP.

The UE shall report the L1-SINR value as a 7-bit value in the range
\[-23, 40\] dB with 0.5dB step size if *nrofReportedRS is configured to
one.* If *nrofReportedRS is configured to be larger than one, or if
groupBasedBeamReporting is enabled,* the UE shall use differential
L1-SINR based reporting. The differential L1-SINR is quantized to a
4-bit value with 1dB step size. The mapping between the reported L1-SINR
value and the measured quantity is described in 10.1.16.

#### 9.8.3.1 Periodic Reporting

Reported L1-SINR measurements contained in periodic L1-SINR measurement
reports shall meet the requirements in clauses 10.1.27 for FR1 and
10.1.28 for FR2, respectively.

#### 9.8.3.2 Semi-Persistent Reporting

Reported L1-SINR measurements contained in a Semi-Persistent L1-SINR
measurement report shall meet the requirements in clauses 10.1.27 for
FR1 and 10.1.28 for FR2, respectively. This requirement applies for
semi-persistent L1-SINR reports send on PUSCH or PUCCH.

The UE shall only send semi-persistent L1-SINR measurement reports on
PUSCH, if a DCI for triggering report has been received.

The UE shall only send semi-persistent L1-SINR measurement reports on
PUCCH, if an activation command as described in clause 6.1.3.16 in
TS38.321 \[7\] has been received.

The UE shall transmit the semi-persistent L1-SINR reporting on PUSCH or
PUCCH over the air interface according to the periodicity defined in
clause 5.2.1.4 in TS 38.214 \[26\].

#### 9.8.3.3 Aperiodic Reporting

Reported L1-SINR measurements contained in aperiodic triggered,
aperiodic triggered periodic and aperiodic triggered semi-persistent
L1-SINR reports shall meet the requirements in clauses 10.1.27 for FR1
and 10.1.28 for FR2, respectively.

The UE shall only send aperiodic L1-SINR measurement reports, if a DCI
for triggering report has been received.

After the UE receives CSI request in DCI, the UE shall transmit the
aperiodic L1-SINR reporting on PUSCH over the air interface at the time
specified according to clause 5.2.1.4 in TS 38.214 \[26\].

### 9.8.4 L1-SINR measurement requirements

#### 9.8.4.1 L1-SINR reporting with CSI-RS based CMR and no dedicated IMR configured

The UE shall be capable of performing L1-SINR measurements with the
CSI-RS resource configured as CMR and no dedicated resource configured
as IMR for L1-SINR computation, and the UE physical layer shall be
capable of reporting L1-SINR measured over the measurement period of
T~L1-SINR\_Measurement\_Period\_CSI-RS\_CMR\_Only~.

The value of T~L1-SINR\_Measurement\_Period\_CSI-RS\_CMR\_Only~ is
defined in Table 9.8.4.1-1 for FR1 and in Table 9.8.4.1-2 for FR2, where

For the value of M,

\- For periodic and semi-persistent CSI-RS resources as CMR, M=1 if
higher layer parameter *timeRestrictionForChannelMeasurement* is
configured, and M=3 otherwise;

\- For aperiodic CSI-RS resources as CMR, M=1.

For the value of N in FR2

> \- For periodic CSI-RS resources as CMR in a resource set configured
> with higher layer parameter *repetition* set to OFF, N=1. The
> requirements apply if *qcl-InfoPeriodicCSI-RS* is configured for all
> the resources in the resource set and for each resource one RS has
> QCL-TypeD with

\- SSB for L1-RSRP or L1-SINR measurement, or

\- another CSI-RS in resource set configured with repetition ON.

> \- For periodic CSI-RS resources as CMR in a resource set configured
> with higher layer parameter *repetition* set to ON,
> N=ceil(*maxNumberRxBeam* / N~res\_per\_set~), where N~res\_per\_set~
> is number of resources in the resource set. The requirements apply
> provided *qcl-InfoPeriodicCSI-RS* is configured for all resources in
> the resource set.
>
> \- For semi-persistent CSI-RS resources as CMR in a resource set
> configured with higher layer parameter *repetition* set to OFF, N=1.
> The requirements apply provided TCI state is provided for all
> resources in the resource set in the MAC CE activating the resource
> set and for each resource has QCL-TypeD with

\- SSB for L1-RSRP or L1-SINR measurement, or

\- another CSI-RS in resource set configured with repetition ON.

\- For semi-persistent CSI-RS resources as CMR in a resource set
configured with higher layer parameter *repetition* set to ON,
N=ceil(*maxNumberRxBeam* / N~res\_per\_set~), where N~res\_per\_set~ is
number of resources in the resource set. The requirements apply provided
TCI state is provided for all resources in the resource set in the MAC
CE activating the resource set.

\- For aperiodic CSI-RS resources as CMR in a resource set configured
with higher layer parameter *repetition* set to OFF, N=1. The
requriements apply provided *qcl-info* is configured for all resources
in the resource set and for each resource has QCL-TypeD with

\- SSB for L1-RSRP or L1-SINR measurement, or

\- another CSI-RS in resource set configured with repetition ON.

\- For aperiodic CSI-RS resources as CMR in a resource set configured
with higher layer parameter *repetition* set to ON, N=1. UE is not
required to meet the accuracy requirements in clause 10.1.28.1 and
10.1.28.3 if number of resources in the resource set is smaller than
*maxNumberRxBeam*. The requriements apply provided *qcl-info* is
configured for all resources in the resource set.

For the value of P in FR1,

\- P=$\frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{\text{MRGP}}}$, when in the
monitored cell there are measurement gaps configured for
intra-frequency, inter-frequency or inter-RAT measurements, which are
overlapping with some but not all occasions of the CSI-RS; and

\- P=1 when in the monitored cell there are no measurement gaps
overlapping with any occasion of the CSI-RS.

For the value of P in FR2,

\- P=1, when CSI-RS is not overlapped with measurement gap and also not
overlapped with SMTC occasion.

\- P=$\frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{\text{MRGP}}}$, when CSI-RS is
partially overlapped with measurement gap and CSI-RS is not overlapped
with SMTC occasion (T~CSI-RS~ \< MGRP)

\- P=$\frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{T_{\text{SMTCperiod}}}}$, when
CSI-RS is not overlapped with measurement gap and CSI-RS is partially
overlapped with SMTC occasion (T~CSI-RS~ \< T~SMTCperiod~).

\- P=3, when CSI-RS is not overlapped with measurement gap and CSI-RS is
fully overlapped with SMTC occasion (T~CSI-RS~ = T~SMTCperiod~).

\-
P=$\ \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{\text{MRGP}} - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{T_{\text{SMTCperiod}}}}$,
when CSI-RS is partially overlapped with measurement gap and CSI-RS is
partially overlapped with SMTC occasion (T~CSI-RS~ \< T~SMTCperiod~) and
SMTC occasion is not overlapped with measurement gap and

\- T~SMTCperiod~ ≠ MGRP or

\- T~SMTCperiod~ = MGRP and T~CSI-RS~ \< 0.5\*T~SMTCperiod~

\- P=$\frac{3}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{\text{MRGP}}}$, when CSI-RS is
partially overlapped with measurement gap and CSI-RS is partially
overlapped with SMTC occasion (T~CSI-RS~ \< T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC
occasion is not overlapped with measurement gap and T~SMTCperiod~ = MGRP
and T~CSI-RS~ = 0.5\*T~SMTCperiod~

\-
P=$\ \frac{1}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{min(T_{\text{SMTCperiod}},MGRP)}}$,
when CSI-RS is partially overlapped with measurement gap (T~CSI-RS~ \<
MGRP) and CSI-RS is partially overlapped with SMTC occasion (T~CSI-RS~
\< T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC occasion is partially or fully overlapped
with measurement gap.

\- P=$\frac{3}{1 - \frac{T_{CSI - RS}}{\text{MRGP}}}$, when CSI-RS is
partially overlapped with measurement gap and CSI-RS is fully overlapped
with SMTC occasion (T~CSI-RS~ = T~SMTCperiod~) and SMTC occasion is
partially overlapped with measurement gap (T~SMTCperiod~ \< MGRP)

Where:

T~SMTCperiod~ = the configured SMTC1 period or SMTC2 period if
configured.

T~CSI-RS~ = the periodicity of CSI-RS configured for L1-SINR measurement

If the high layer in TS 38.331 \[2\] signaling of *smtc2* is configured,
T~SMTCperiod~ corresponds to the value of higher layer parameter
*smtc2*; Otherwise T~SMTCperiod~ corresponds to the value of higher
layer parameter *smtc1*.

Note: The overlap between CSI-RS for L1-SINR measurement and SMTC means
that CSI-RS for L1-SINR measurement is within the SMTC window duration.

Longer evaluation period would be expected if the combination of CSI-RS,
SMTC occasion and measurement gap configurations does not meet pervious
conditions.

Table 9.8.4.1-1: Measurement period
T~L1-SINR\_Measurement\_Period\_CSI-RS\_CMR\_Only~ for FR1

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Configuration                    | T~L1-SINR\_Measure               |
|                                  | ment\_Period\_CSI-RS\_CMR\_Only~ |
|                                  | (ms)                             |
+==================================+==================================+
| non-DRX                          | max(T~Report~,                   |
|                                  | ceil(M\*P)\*T~CSI-RS~)           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                | max(T~Report~,                   |
|                                  | ceil(1.                          |
|                                  | 5\*M\*P)\*max(T~DRX~,T~CSI-RS~)) |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle \> 320ms               | ceil(M\*P)\*T~DRX~               |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Note 1: T~CSI-RS~ is the         |                                  |
| periodicity of CSI-RS configured |                                  |
| for L1-SINR measurement. T~DRX~  |                                  |
| is the DRX cycle length.         |                                  |
| T~Report~ is configured          |                                  |
| periodicity for reporting.       |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Note 2: the requirements are     |                                  |
| applicable provided that the     |                                  |
| CSI-RS resource configured for   |                                  |
| L1-SINR measurement is           |                                  |
| transmitted with Density = 3.    |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

Table 9.8.4.1-2: Measurement period
T~L1-SINR\_Measurement\_Period\_CSI-RS\_CMR\_Only~ for FR2

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Configuration                    | T~L1-SINR\_Measure               |
|                                  | ment\_Period\_CSI-RS\_CMR\_Only~ |
|                                  | (ms)                             |
+==================================+==================================+
| non-DRX                          | max(T~Report~,                   |
|                                  | ceil(M\*P\*N)\*T~CSI-RS~)        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                | max(T~Report~,                   |
|                                  | ceil(1.5\*                       |
|                                  | M\*P\*N)\*max(T~DRX~,T~CSI-RS~)) |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle \> 320ms               | ceil(M\*P\*N)\*T~DRX~            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Note 1: T~CSI-RS~ is the         |                                  |
| periodicity of CSI-RS configured |                                  |
| for L1-SINR measurement. T~DRX~  |                                  |
| is the DRX cycle length.         |                                  |
| T~Report~ is configured          |                                  |
| periodicity for reporting.       |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Note 2: the requirements are     |                                  |
| applicable provided that the     |                                  |
| CSI-RS resource configured for   |                                  |
| L1-SINR measurement is           |                                  |
| transmitted with Density = 3.    |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

9.8.4.2 L1-SINR reporting with SSB based CMR and dedicated IMR
configured

The UE shall be capable of performing L1-SINR measurements with the SSB
configured as CMR and dedicated resource configured as IMR for L1-SINR
computation, in which the NZP-CSI-RS or CSI-IM resource configured as
dedicated IMR shall be 1-to-1 mapped to SSB configured as CMR, with the
same periodicity. The UE physical layer shall be capable of reporting
L1-SINR measured over the measurement period of
T~L1-SINR\_Measurement\_Period\_SSB\_CMR\_IMR~.

The requirements in this clause are not applicable if NZP-CSI-RS or
CSI-IM resource configured as dedicated IMR is scheduled with different
periodicity as SSB configured as CMR.

The value of T~L1-SINR\_Measurement\_Period\_SSB\_CMR\_IMR~ is defined
in Table 9.8.4.2-1 for FR1 and in Table 9.8.4.2-2 for FR2, where

For the value of M

\- For periodic or semi-persistent NZP CSI-RS or CSI-IM resource as
dedicated IMR, M=1 if the higher layer parameters
*timeRestrictionForChannelMeasurements* and/or
*timeRestrictionForInterferenceMeasurements* are configured, and M=3
otherwise;

For the value of N in FR2

> \- N = 8.

P is defined as the maximum value between P~CMR~ and P~IMR~, i.e., P =
max(P~CMR~, P~IMR~), where

\- the value of P~CMR~ shall be derived in the same way as the value of
P used for SSB based L1-RSRP measurement in clause 9.5.4.1, in which the
occasions and period of the SSB for CMR shall be used instead.

\- the value of P~IMR~ shall be derived in the same way as the value of
P used for CSI-RS based L1-RSRP measurement in clause 9.5.4.2, in which
the occasions and period of the NZP CSI-RS for NZP-IMR or CSI-IM for
ZP-IMR shall be used instead.

Longer evaluation period would be expected if the combination of SSB,
SMTC occasion and measurement gap configurations does not meet pervious
conditions.

For L1-SINR measurement with SSB as CMR and CSI-RS or CSI-IM as IMR, the
requirement shall apply if the CSI-RS is configured as IMR with
repetition field as "repetition = OFF" or CSI-IM is configured as IMR.

For L1-SINR measurement with SSB as CMR and CSI-RS/CSI-IM as IMR, no
requirement shall apply if SSB occasions for CMR or CSI-RS/CSI-IM
occasions for IMR are fully overlapped with the configured measurement
gap.

Table 9.8.4.2-1: Measurement period
T~L1-SINR\_Measurement\_Period\_SSB\_CMR\_IMR~ for FR1

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Configuration                    | T~L1-SINR\_Mea                   |
|                                  | surement\_Period\_SSB\_CMR\_IMR~ |
|                                  | (ms)                             |
+==================================+==================================+
| non-DRX                          | max(T~Report~,                   |
|                                  | ceil(M\*P)\*T~SSB~)              |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                | max(T~Report~,                   |
|                                  | ceil                             |
|                                  | (1.5\*M\*P)\*max(T~DRX~,T~SSB~)) |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle \> 320ms               | ceil(M\*P)\*T~DRX~               |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Note 1: T~SSB~ =                 |                                  |
| ssb-periodicityServingCell is    |                                  |
| the periodicity of the SSB-Index |                                  |
| configured for L1-SINR channel   |                                  |
| measurement. T~DRX~ is the DRX   |                                  |
| cycle length. T~Report~ is       |                                  |
| configured periodicity for       |                                  |
| reporting.                       |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Note 2: The requirements are     |                                  |
| applicable provided that the     |                                  |
| CSI-RS resource configured for   |                                  |
| interference measurement shall   |                                  |
| be 1-to-1 mapped to SSB          |                                  |
| configured for channel           |                                  |
| measurement, with the same       |                                  |
| periodicity.                     |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

Table 9.8.4.2-2: Measurement period
T~L1-SINR\_Measurement\_Period\_SSB\_CMR\_IMR~ for FR2

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Configuration                    | T~L1-SINR\_Mea                   |
|                                  | surement\_Period\_SSB\_CMR\_IMR~ |
|                                  | (ms)                             |
+==================================+==================================+
| non-DRX                          | max(T~Report~,                   |
|                                  | ceil(M\*P\*N)\*T~SSB~)           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                | max(T~Report~,                   |
|                                  | ceil(1.                          |
|                                  | 5\*M\*P\*N)\*max(T~DRX~,T~SSB~)) |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle \> 320ms               | ceil(1.5\*M\*P\*N)\*T~DRX~       |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Note 1: T~SSB~ =                 |                                  |
| ssb-periodicityServingCell is    |                                  |
| the periodicity of the SSB-Index |                                  |
| configured for L1-SINR           |                                  |
| measurement. T~DRX~ is the DRX   |                                  |
| cycle length. T~Report~ is       |                                  |
| configured periodicity for       |                                  |
| reporting.                       |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Note 2: The requirements are     |                                  |
| applicable provided that the     |                                  |
| CSI-RS resource configured for   |                                  |
| interference measurement shall   |                                  |
| be 1-to-1 mapped to SSB          |                                  |
| configured for channel           |                                  |
| measurement, with the same       |                                  |
| periodicity.                     |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

#### 9.8.4.3 L1-SINR reporting with CSI-RS based CMR and dedicated IMR configured

The UE shall be capable of performing L1-SINR measurements with the
CSI-RS resource configured as CMR and dedicated resource configured as
IMR for L1-SINR computation, in which the NZP-CSI-RS or CSI-IM resource
configured as dedicated IMR shall be 1-to-1 mapped to CSI-RS resource
configured as CMR, with the same periodicity. The UE physical layer
shall be capable of reporting L1-SINR measured over the measurement
period of T~L1-SINR\_Measurement\_Period\_CSI-RS\_CMR\_IMR~.

The requirements in this clause are not applicable if NZP-CSI-RS or
CSI-IM resource configured as dedicated IMR is scheduled with different
periodicity as CSI-RS resource configured as CMR.

The value of T~L1-SINR\_Measurement\_Period\_CSI-RS\_CMR\_IMR~ is
defined in Table 9.8.4.3-1 for FR1 and in Table 9.8.4.3-2 for FR2, where

For the value of M,

\- M=1 shall be applied if

\- aperiodic NZP-CSI-RS as CMR or dedicated IMR, or

\- aperiodic CSI-IMR as dedicated IMR, or

\- periodic and semi-persistent NZP-CSI-RS as CMR or dedicated IMR and
the higher layer parameters *timeRestrictionForChannelMeasurement*
and/or *timeRestrictionForInterferenceMeasurements* are configured, or

\- periodic and semi-persistent CSI-IM as dedicated IMR and the higher
layer parameters *timeRestrictionForChannelMeasurement* and/or
*timeRestrictionForInterferenceMeasurements* are configured;

\- M=3 otherwise.

For the value of N in FR2

> \- For periodic CSI-RS resources as CMR in a resource set configured
> with higher layer parameter *repetition* set to OFF, N=1. The
> requirements apply if *qcl-InfoPeriodicCSI-RS* is configured for all
> the resources in the resource set and for each resource one RS has
> QCL-TypeD with

\- SSB for L1-RSRP or L1-SINR measurement, or

\- another CSI-RS in resource set configured with repetition ON.

\- For periodic CSI-RS resources as CMR in a resource set configured
with higher layer parameter *repetition* set to ON,
N=ceil(*maxNumberRxBeam* / N~res\_per\_set~), where N~res\_per\_set~ is
number of resources in the resource set. The requirements apply provided
*qcl-InfoPeriodicCSI-RS* is configured for all resources in the resource
set.

\- For semi-persistent CSI-RS resources as CMR in a resource set
configured with higher layer parameter *repetition* set to OFF, N=1. The
requirements apply provided TCI state is provided for all resources in
the resource set in the MAC CE activating the resource set and for each
resource has QCL-TypeD with

\- SSB for L1-RSRP or L1-SINR measurement, or

\- another CSI-RS in resource set configured with repetition ON.

\- For semi-persistent CSI-RS resources as CMR in a resource set
configured with higher layer parameter *repetition* set to ON,
N=ceil(*maxNumberRxBeam* / N~res\_per\_set~), where N~res\_per\_set~ is
number of resources in the resource set. The requirements apply provided
TCI state is provided for all resources in the resource set in the MAC
CE activating the resource set.

\- For aperiodic CSI-RS resources as CMR in a resource set configured
with higher layer parameter *repetition* set to OFF, N=1. The
requriements apply provided *qcl-info* is configured for all resources
in the resource set and for each resource has QCL-TypeD with

\- SSB for L1-RSRP or L1-SINR measurement, or

\- another CSI-RS in resource set configured with repetition ON.

\- For aperiodic CSI-RS resources as CMR in a resource set configured
with higher layer parameter *repetition* set to ON, N=1. UE is not
required to meet the accuracy requirements in clause 10.1.28.1 and
10.1.28.3 if number of resources in the resource set is smaller than
*maxNumberRxBeam*. The requriements apply provided *qcl-info* is
configured for all resources in the resource set.

P is defined as the maximum value between P~CMR~ and P~IMR~, i.e., P =
max(P~CMR~, P~IMR~), where

\- The value of P~CMR~ and P~IMR~ shall be derived in the same way as
the value of P used for CSI-RS based L1-RSRP measurement in clause
9.5.4.2, in which the occasions and period of the CSI-RS for CMR and NZP
CSI-RS for NZP-IMR or CSI-IM for ZP-IMR shall be used instead
respectively.

Longer evaluation period would be expected if the combination of CSI-RS,
SMTC occasion and measurement gap configurations does not meet pervious
conditions.

For L1-SINR measurement with CSI-RS as CMR and CSI-RS as IMR, the
requirement shall apply only if CSI-RS resources as CMR and IMR are
configured with the same repetition field and the number of CSI-RS
resources in the resource sets for CMR and IMR are same.

For L1-SINR measurement with CSI-RS as CMR and CSI-IM as IMR, the
requirement shall apply only if the number of CSI-RS resources in the
resource set for CMR and the number of CSI-IM resources in the resource
set for IMR are same.

For L1-SINR measurement with CSI-RS as CMR and CSI-RS/CSI-IM as IMR, no
requirement shall apply if CSI-RS occasions for CMR or CSI-RS/CSI-IM
occasions for IMR are fully overlapped with the configured measurement
gap.

Table 9.8.4.3-1: Measurement period
T~L1-SINR\_Measurement\_Period\_CSI-RS\_CMR\_IMR~ for FR1

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Configuration                    | T~L1-SINR\_Measur                |
|                                  | ement\_Period\_CSI-RS\_CMR\_IMR~ |
|                                  | (ms)                             |
+==================================+==================================+
| non-DRX                          | max(T~Report~,                   |
|                                  | ceil(M\*P)\*T~CSI-RS~)           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                | max(T~Report~,                   |
|                                  | ceil(1.                          |
|                                  | 5\*M\*P)\*max(T~DRX~,T~CSI-RS~)) |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle \> 320ms               | ceil(M\*P)\*T~DRX~               |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Note 1: T~CSI-RS~ is the         |                                  |
| periodicity of CSI-RS configured |                                  |
| for L1-SINR measurement. T~DRX~  |                                  |
| is the DRX cycle length.         |                                  |
| T~Report~ is configured          |                                  |
| periodicity for reporting.       |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Note 2: the requirements are     |                                  |
| applicable provided that the     |                                  |
| CSI-RS resource configured for   |                                  |
| L1-SINR measurement is           |                                  |
| transmitted with Density = 3.    |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Note 3: The requirements are     |                                  |
| applicable provided that the     |                                  |
| CSI-RS resource configured for   |                                  |
| interference measurement shall   |                                  |
| be 1-to-1 mapped to CSI-RS       |                                  |
| configured for channel           |                                  |
| measurement, with the same       |                                  |
| periodicity.                     |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

Table 9.8.4.3-2: Measurement period
T~L1-SINR\_Measurement\_Period\_CSI-RS\_CMR\_IMR~ for FR2

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Configuration                    | T~L1-SINR\_Measur                |
|                                  | ement\_Period\_CSI-RS\_CMR\_IMR~ |
|                                  | (ms)                             |
+==================================+==================================+
| non-DRX                          | max(T~Report~,                   |
|                                  | ceil(M\*P\*N)\*T~CSI-RS~)        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                | max(T~Report~,                   |
|                                  | ceil(1.5\*                       |
|                                  | M\*P\*N)\*max(T~DRX~,T~CSI-RS~)) |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle \> 320ms               | ceil(M\*P\*N)\*T~DRX~            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Note 1: T~CSI-RS~ is the         |                                  |
| periodicity of CSI-RS configured |                                  |
| for L1-SINR measurement. T~DRX~  |                                  |
| is the DRX cycle length.         |                                  |
| T~Report~ is configured          |                                  |
| periodicity for reporting.       |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Note 2: the requirements are     |                                  |
| applicable provided that the     |                                  |
| CSI-RS resource configured for   |                                  |
| L1-SINR measurement is           |                                  |
| transmitted with Density = 3.    |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Note 3: The requirements are     |                                  |
| applicable provided that the     |                                  |
| CSI-RS resource configured for   |                                  |
| interference measurement shall   |                                  |
| be 1-to-1 mapped to CSI-RS       |                                  |
| configured for channel           |                                  |
| measurement, with the same       |                                  |
| periodicity.                     |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

### 9.8.5 Measurement restriction for L1-SINR measurement

The UE is required to be capable of measuring L1-SINR without
measurement gaps. The UE is required to perform the SSB and
CSI-RS/CSI-IM measurements with measurement restrictions as described in
the following clauses.

#### 9.8.5.1 Measurement restriction if SSB configured for L1-SINR Measurement

For FR1, when the SSB configured as CMR for L1-SINR measurement is in
the same OFDM symbol as CSI-RS for RLM, BFD, CBD, L1-RSRP or L1-SINR
measurement,

\- If SSB and CSI-RS have same SCS, UE shall be able to measure the SSB
for L1-SINR measurement without any restriction;

\- If SSB and CSI-RS have different SCS,

\- If UE supports *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology*, UE shall be
able to measure the SSB for L1-SINR measurement without any restriction;

\- If UE does not support *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology*, UE is
required to measure one of but not both SSB for L1-SINR measurement and
CSI-RS. Longer measurement period for SSB based L1-SINR measurement is
expected, and no requirements are defined.

For FR2, when the SSB configured as CMR for L1-SINR measurement on one
CC is in the same OFDM symbol as CSI-RS for RLM, BFD, CBD, L1-RSRP or
L1-SINR measurement on the same CC or different CCs in the same band, UE
is required to measure one of but not both SSB for L1-SINR measurement
and CSI-RS. Longer measurement period for SSB based L1-RSRP measurement
is expected, and no requirements are defined.

For FR2, there is no measurement restriction allowed when the network
configures mixed numerology between SSB configured as CMR for L1-SINR
measurement on one FR2 band and CSI-RS for RLM, BFD, CBD, L1-RSRP or
L1-SINR measurement on the other FR2 band, provided that UE is capable
of independent beam management on this FR2 band pair.

#### 9.8.5.2 Measurement restriction if CSI-RS configured for L1-SINR measurement

For both FR1 and FR2, when the CSI-RS configured for L1-SINR measurement
is in the same OFDM symbol as SSB for RLM, BFD, CBD, L1-RSRP or L1-SINR
measurement, UE is not required to receive CSI-RS for L1-SINR
measurement in the PRBs that overlap with an SSB.

For FR1, when the SSB for RLM, BFD, CBD, L1-RSRP or L1-SINR measurement
is within the active BWP and has same SCS than CSI-RS configured for
L1-SINR measurement, the UE shall be able to perform CSI-RS measurement
without restrictions.

For FR1, when the SSB for RLM, BFD, CBD, L1-RSRP or L1-SINR measurement
is within the active BWP and has different SCS than CSI-RS configured
for L1-SINR measurement, the UE shall be able to perform CSI-RS
measurement with restrictions according to its capabilities:

\- If the UE supports *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology*, UE shall
be able to perform CSI-RS measurement without restrictions.

\- If the UE does not support *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology*, UE
is required to measure one of but not both CSI-RS for L1-SINR
measurement and SSB. Longer measurement period for CSI-RS based L1-SINR
measurement is expected, and no requirements are defined.

For FR1, when the CSI-RS configured for L1-SINR measurement is in the
same OFDM symbol as another CSI-RS for RLM, BFD, CBD, L1-RSRP or L1-SINR
measurement, UE shall be able to measure the CSI-RS for L1-SINR
measurement without any restriction.

For FR2, when the CSI-RS configured for L1-SINR measurement on one CC is
in the same OFDM symbol as SSB for RLM, BFD, L1-RSRP or L1-SINR
measurement on the same CC or different CCs in the same band, or in the
same symbol as SSB for CBD measurement on the same CC or different CCs
in the same band when beam failure is detected, UE is required to
measure one of but not both CSI-RS for L1-SINR measurement and SSB.
Longer measurement period for CSI-RS based L1-SINR measurement is
expected, and no requirements are defined.

For FR2, when the CSI-RS configured for L1-SINR measurement on one CC is
in the same OFDM symbol as another CSI-RS for RLM, BFD, CBD, L1-RSRP or
L1-SINR measurement on the same CC or different CCs in the same band,

\- In the following cases, UE is required to measure one of but not both
CSI-RS for L1-SINR measurement and the other CSI-RS. Longer measurement
period for CSI-RS based L1-SINR measurement is expected, and no
requirements are defined.

\- The CSI-RS for L1-SINR measurement or the other CSI-RS in a resource
set configured with repetition ON, or

\- The CSI-RS or the other CSI-RS is configured as dedicated IMR for
L1-SINR computation with SSB as CMR, or

\- The other CSI-RS is configured in q1 and beam failure is detected, or

\- The two CSI-RS-es are not QCL-ed w.r.t. QCL-TypeD, or the QCL
information is not known to UE,

\- Otherwise, UE shall be able to measure the CSI-RS configured for
L1-SINR measurement without any restriction.

#### 9.8.5.3 Measurement restriction if CSI-IM configured for L1-SINR measurement

For both FR1 and FR2, when the CSI-IM configured for L1-SINR measurement
is in the same OFDM symbol as SSB for RLM, BFD, CBD, L1-RSRP or L1-SINR
measurement, UE is not required to measure CSI-IM for L1-SINR
measurement in the PRBs that overlap with an SSB.

For FR1, UE shall be able to measure the CSI-IM configured for L1-SINR
measurement without any restriction.

For FR2, when the CSI-IM configured for L1-SINR measurement on one CC is
in the same OFDM symbol as SSB for RLM, BFD, L1-RSRP or L1-SINR
measurement on the same CC or different CCs in the same band, or in the
same symbol as SSB for CBD measurement on the same CC or different CCs
in the same band when beam failure is detected, UE is required to
measure one of but not both CSI-IM for L1-SINR measurement and SSB.
Longer measurement period for L1-SINR measurement is expected, and no
requirements are defined.

For FR2, when the CSI-IM configured for L1-SINR measurement on one CC is
in the same OFDM symbol as the CSI-RS for RLM, BFD, CBD, L1-RSRP or
L1-SINR measurement on the same CC or different CCs in the same band,

\- In the following cases, UE is required to measure one of but not both
CSI-IM for L1-SINR measurement and CSI-RS. Longer measurement period for
L1-SINR measurement is expected, and no requirements are defined.

\- The CSI-RS in a resource set configured with repetition ON, or

\- The CSI-IM or the CSI-RS is configured as dedicated IMR for L1-SINR
computation with SSB as CMR, or

\- The CSI-RS is configured in q1 and beam failure is detected, or

\- The CMR for L1-SINR measurement and the CSI-RS are not QCL-ed w.r.t.
QCL-TypeD, or the QCL information is not known to UE,

\- Otherwise, UE shall be able to measure the CSI-IM configured for
L1-SINR measurement without any restriction.

### 9.8.6 Scheduling availability of UE during L1-SINR measurement

Scheduling availability restrictions when the UE is performing L1-SINR
measurement are described in the following clauses.

#### 9.8.6.1 Scheduling availability of UE performing L1-SINR measurement with a same subcarrier spacing as PDSCH/PDCCH on FR1

There are no scheduling restrictions due to L1-SINR measurement
performed on SSB and CSI-RS configured for L1-SINR measurement with the
same SCS as PDSCH/PDCCH in FR1.

#### 9.8.6.2 Scheduling availability of UE performing L1-SINR measurement with a different subcarrier spacing than PDSCH/PDCCH on FR1

For UEs which support *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology* \[14\]
there are no restrictions on scheduling availability due to L1-SINR
measurement based on SSB configured for L1-SINR measurement. For UEs
which do not support *simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology* \[14\] the
following restrictions apply due to L1-SINR measurement based on SSB
configured for L1-SINR measurement.

\- The UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS or receive
PDCCH/PDSCH/CSI-RS for tracking /CSI-RS for CQI on SSB symbols to be
measured for L1-SINR measurement.

When intra-band carrier aggregation in FR1 is configured, the scheduling
restrictions on serving cell where L1-SINR measurement is performed
apply to all serving cells in the same band on the symbols that fully or
partially overlap with restricted symbols. When inter-band carrier
aggregation within FR1 is configured, there are no scheduling
restrictions on FR1 serving cell(s) configured in other bands than the
bands in which the serving cell where L1-SINR measurement is performed
is configured.

9.8.6.3 Scheduling availability of UE performing L1-SINR measurement on
FR2

The following scheduling restriction applies due to L1-SINR measurement.

\- For the cases of [ ]{.underline} CSI-RS used for L1-SINR measurement
of CSI-RS based CMR only case and CSI-RS based CMR plus CSI-RS based
ZP-IMR/NZP-IMR case and CSI-RS based CMR plus ZP-IMR case, where CSI-RS
is QCLed with active TCI state for PDCCH/PDSCH and not in a CSI-RS
resource set with repetition ON, and N=1 applies as specified in
clause 9.8.4

\- There are no scheduling restrictions due to L1-SINR measurement
performed based on the CSI-RS.

\- Otherwise

\- The UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS or receive
PDCCH/PDSCH/CSI-RS for tracking/CSI-RS for CQI on the symbols to be
measured for L1-SINR.

When intra-band carrier aggregation is performed, the scheduling
restrictions on serving cell where L1-SINR measurement is performed
apply to all serving cells in the band on the symbols that fully or
partially overlap with restricted symbols.

If following conditions are met,

\- UE has been notified about system information update through paging,

\- The gap between UE's reception of PDCCH that UE monitors in the Type
2-PDCCH CSS set and that notifies system information update, and the
PDCCH that UE monitors in the Type0-PDCCH CSS set, is greater than 2
slots,

for the SSB and CORESET for RMSI scheduling multiplexing patterns 3, UE
is expected to receive the PDCCH that UE monitors in the Type0-PDCCH CSS
set, and the corresponding PDSCH, on SSB symbols to be measured for
L1-SINR measurement; and

for the SSB and CORESET for RMSI scheduling multiplexing patterns 2, UE
is expected to receive PDSCH that corresponds to the PDCCH that UE
monitors in the Type0-PDCCH CSS set, on SSB symbols to be measured for
L1-SINR measurement.

#### 9.8.6.4 Scheduling availability of UE performing L1-SINR measurement on FR1 or FR2 in case of FR1-FR2 inter-band CA

There are no scheduling restrictions on FR1 serving cell(s) due to
L1-SINR measurement performed on FR2 serving cell(s).

There are no scheduling restrictions on FR2 serving cell(s) due to
L1-SINR measurement performed on FR1 serving cell(s).

9.9 NR measurements for positioning
-----------------------------------

### 9.9.1 Introduction

This clause contains requirements for UE capable of performing NR
positioning measurements defined in TS 38.215 \[4\], including RSTD,
PRS-RSRP, UE Rx-Tx time difference, and NR E-CID measurements.

For RSTD, PRS-RSRP and UE Rx-Tx time difference measurements, the
requirements in clauses 9.9.2, 9.9.3 and 9.9.4 apply provided:

> \- UE is configured with per-UE measurement gaps

\- No active BWP switching occurs during the measurement gaps for PRS
measurement, and

All measurement requirements specified in clause 9.9.2, 9.9.3 and 9.9.4
shall apply without DRX as well as for any DRX configuration specified
in TS 38.331 \[2\].

UE is not required to perform additional SSB measurement for the SSB
configured as QCL source of PRS resources.

UE is only required to measure PRS resources that are fully or partially
overlapped with measurement gaps, and the requirements in clause 9.9.2,
9.9.3 and 9.9.4 are applicable to PRS resources that are fully or
partially overlapped with measurement gaps.

A PRS resource is considered to be fully (partially) overlapped with
measurement gaps if all (some) of its instances are overlapped with a
measurement gap occasion. A PRS resource instance is considered to be
overlapped with measurement gap occasion if the minimum number of
unmuted repetitions of the instance taking into account
***nr-DL-PRS-ExpectedRSTD-Uncertainty and nr-DL-PRS-ExpectedRSTD*** is
fully covered by the MGL excluding RF switching time, where the minimum
number is given in the accuracy requirements in clause 10.1.23, 10.1.24
and 10.1.25 for RSTD, PRS-RSRP and UE Rx-Tx time difference,
respectively.

When UE is configured with measurement for more than one positioning
requests, the measurement period for each request may be longer than
measurement period when UE is configured with measurement for single
positioning request.

### 9.9.2 RSTD measurements

#### 9.9.2.1 Introduction

The requirements in clause 9.9.2 shall apply provided the UE has
received *NR-DL-TDOA-RequestLocationInformation* message from LMF via
LPP \[34\] requesting the UE to measure and report DL RSTD measurements
defined in TS 38.215 \[4\].

#### 9.9.2.2 Requirements Applicability

The requirements in clause 9.9.2 apply for periodic and triggered RSTD
measurements, provided:

\- PRS-RSTD related side conditions given in clause 10.1.23 for FR1 and
FR2 are fulfilled, for a corresponding Band.

#### 9.9.2.3 Measurement Capability

UE PRS RSTD measurement capability is as indicated by the UE in
*NR-DL-TDOA-ProvideCapabilities*, according to TS 37.355\[34\].

#### 9.9.2.4 Measurement Reporting Requirements

The measurement reporting delay is defined as the time between the
moment when the periodic measurement report is triggered and the moment
when the UE starts to transmit the measurement report over the air
interface. This requirement assumes that the measurement report is not
delayed by other LPP signalling on the DCCH. This measurement reporting
delay excludes a delay uncertainty resulted when inserting the
measurement report to the TTI of the uplink DCCH. The delay uncertainty
is: 2 x TTI~DCCH~ where TTI~DCCH~ is the duration of subframe or slot or
subslot when the measurement report is transmitted on the PUSCH with
subframe or slot or subslot duration. This measurement reporting delay
excludes any delay caused by no UL resources for UE to send the
measurement report.

The reported RSTD measurement values contained in measurement reports
shall be based on the measurement report mapping requirements specified
in clauses 10.1.23.3.

The RSTD measurements performed and reported according to this section
shall meet the RSTD measurement accuracy requirements in clause 10.1.23,
for each measured DL PRS resource.

##### 9.9.2.4.1 Void

##### 9.9.2.4.2 Void

##### 9.9.2.4.3 Void

#### 9.9.2.5 Measurements Period Requirements

When physical layer receives last of *NR-TDOA-ProvideAssistanceData*
message and *NR-TDOA-RequestLocationInformation message from LMF via LPP
\[34\], the UE shall be able to measure multiple (*up to the UE
capability specified in Clause 9.9.2.3*) DL RSTD measurements, defined*
in TS 38.215 \[4\], during the measurement period $T_{RSTD,Total}$
defined as:

$T_{RSTD,Total} = \sum_{i = 1}^{L}{T_{RSTD,i} + \ \left( L - 1 \right)*\max\left( T_{effect,i} \right)\ }$

Where ,

$i$ is the index of positioning frequency layer,

$L$ is total number of positioning frequency layers, and

$T_{effect,i}$ is the periodicity of the PRS RSTD measurement in
positioning frequency layer i

$T_{RSTD,i}$ is the measurement period for PRS RSTD measurement in
positioning frequency layer *i* as specified below:

$T_{RSTD,i} = {\left( {\text{CSSF}_{PRS,i}*N}_{\text{RxBeam},i}*\left\lceil \frac{N_{\text{PRS}\text{,i}}^{\text{slot}}}{N^{'}} \right\rceil\left\lceil \frac{L_{available\_ PRS,i}}{N} \right\rceil*N_{\text{sample}} - 1 \right)*T}_{effect,i} + \text{T}_{\text{last},i}$
,

where:

$N_{RxBeam,i}$ is the UE Rx beam sweeping factor. In FR1, $N_{RxBeam,i}$
= 1; and in FR2, $\text{\ N}_{RxBeam,i}$ = 8.

$\text{CSSF}_{PRS,i}$ is the carrier-specific scaling factor for NR
PRS-based positioning measurements in positioning frequency layer *i* as
defined in clause 9.1.5.2.

> $N_{PRS,i}^{\text{slot}}$ is the maximum number of DL PRS resources in
> positioning frequency layer *i* configured in a slot.
>
> $\text{\ \ \ \ \ L}_{available\_ PRS,i}$ *is the time duration of
> available PRS in the positioning frequency layer i to be measured
> during* $T_{available\_ PRS,i}$*, and is calculated in the same way as
> PRS duration K defined in clause 5.1.6.5 of TS 38.214 \[26\]. For
> calculation of* $L_{available\_ PRS,i}$*, only the PRS resources
> unmuted and fully or partially overlapped with MG are considered.*
>
> $N_{\text{sample}}$ is the number of PRS RSTD samples and
> $N_{\text{sample}}$= 4.
>
> $\text{T}_{\text{last,i}}$ is the measurement duration for the last
> PRS RSTD sample in positioning frequency layer *i*, including the
> sampling time and processing time, $\text{T}_{\text{last},i}$ **=**
> $T_{\text{i}}$ **+** $T_{\text{available}\_\text{PRS}\text{,i}}$ ,

$T_{effect,i}$ is the periodicity of the PRS RSTD measurement in
positioning frequency layer i *defined as:*

$T_{\text{effect,i}}$ *=*
$\left\lceil \frac{T_{\text{i}}}{T_{available\_ PRS\text{,i}}} \right\rceil*T_{available\_ PRS\text{,i}}$

Where,

$T_{i}$ corresponds to *durationOfPRS-ProcessingSymbolsInEveryTms* in TS
37.355 \[34\],

$T_{available\_ PRS\text{,i}} = \ LCM\left( T_{\text{PRS}\text{,i}},\text{MGRP}_{\text{i}} \right)$*,*
the least common multiple between $T_{\text{PRS}\text{,i}}$ and
$\text{MGRP}_{\text{i}}$.

$\text{\ \ \ \ \ \ MGRP}_{\text{i}}$ is the repetition periodicity of
the measurement gap applicable for measurement in the PRS frequency
layer i.

$T_{\text{PRS}\text{,i}}$ is the periodicity of DL PRS resource with
muting on positioning frequency layer *i*.

If more than one PRS periodicities are configured in positioning
frequency layer *i*, the least common multiple of PRS periodicities
$T_{\text{per}}^{\text{PRS\ with\ muting}}$ among all DL PRS resource
sets in the positioning frequency layer is used to derive
$T_{\text{PRS},i}$, where,

${T_{\text{per}}^{\text{PRS\ with\ muting}} = N}_{\text{muting}}*T_{\text{per}}^{\text{PRS}}$,
is the PRS periodicity with muting per PRS resource,

$T_{\text{per}}^{\text{PRS}}$ is the periodicity of PRS resource sets
given by the higher-layer parameter *DL-PRS-Periodicity*.

$N_{\text{muting}}$ is the scaling factor considering PRS resource
muting.
$N_{\text{muting}} = T_{\text{muting}}^{\text{PRS}}*L_{\text{muting}}$,
where

$T_{\text{muting}}^{\text{PRS}}$ is the muting repetition factor given
by the higher-layer parameter *DL-PRS-MutingBitRepetitionFactor*, and
$L_{\text{muting}}$ is the size of the bitmap $\left\{ b^{1} \right\}$.

Note: For the purpose of calculating T~PRS,i~, only the PRS resources
fully or partially covered by the MG are considered.

$\{ N,T\}$ is UE capability combination per band where N is a duration
of DL PRS symbols in ms corresponding to
*durationOfPRS-ProcessingSysmbols* in TS 37.355 \[34\] processed every T
ms corresponding to *durationOfPRS-ProcessingSymbolsInEveryTms* in TS
37.355 \[34\] for a given maximum bandwidth supported by UE
corresponding to *supportedBandwidthPRS* in TS 37.355 \[34\].

$N’$ is UE capability for number of DL PRS resources that it can process
in a slot as indicated by *maxNumOfDL-PRS-ResProcessedPerSlot* specified
in TS 37.355 \[34\].

Except for deferred MT-LR as defined in clause 4.1a.5 \[TS 23.273\], the
time$\ T_{RSTD,Total}$ *s*tarts from the first MG instance aligned with
a DL PRS resource(s) in the assistance data after both the
*NR-TDOA-ProvideAssistanceData* message and
*NR-TDOA-RequestLocationInformation message are delivered from LMF to
the physical layer of UE via LPP \[34\].*

For deferred MT-LR with other event than "Periodic Location" as defined
in clause 4.1a.5.1 \[TS 23.273\], the time$\ T_{RSTD,Total}$ starts from
the first MG instance aligned with a DL PRS resource(s) in the
assistance data after the associated event(s) occurs.

For deferred MT-LR with event "Periodic Location" as defined in clause
4.1a.5.1 \[TS 23.273\], the UE shall perform the RSTD measurement in
each reporting period and activate the location report at the time when
the periodic timer expires.

Note: No per-positioning frequency layer requirement is applied in
scenarios when multiple positioning frequency layers are configured.

If during the measurement period of one or more positioning frequency
layers, the MG pattern is reconfigured, the measurement period can be
longer. When PRS-RSRP is configured for DL-TDOA, RSTD and RSRP are
performed over the same measurement period.

The measurement requirements in this clause apply, provided no PRS
symbols are dropped during the measurement period T~RSTD,Total~ within
measurement gaps due to collisions with other signals; otherwise, the
measurement period can be longer.

If CSSF changes during the measurement period, the measurement period
could be longer.

The measurement requirements do not apply for a PRS resource, if the PRS
resource is across two sampling duration of N within duration
$L_{available\_ PRS,i}$.

The measurement requirements do not apply for a PRS resource, if time
span of the PRS resource instance (including at least the minimum number
of repetitions specified in the accuracy requirements) is greater than
UE reported capability N.

The requirements in clause 9.9.2 do not apply if the PRS configuration
given by higher layer paramters *NR-DL-PRS-AssistanceData* exceeds any
of the UE measurement capabilities given by
*NR-DL-PRS-ResourcesCapability* in *NR-DL-TDOA-ProvideCapabilities, and
it is up to UE implementation which PRS resources are measured, subject
to* UE measurement capabilities*.*

If handover occurs while RSTD measurements are being performed, then the
UE shall continue and complete the on-going RSTD measurements. The RSTD
measurement period can be longer. The UE shall meet the RSTD measurement
accuracy requirements in clause 10.1.23.

#### 9.9.2.6 Void

### 9.9.3 PRS-RSRP measurements

#### 9.9.3.1 Introduction

The requirements in clause 9.9.3.5 shall apply provided the UE has
received *a* message from LMF via LPP \[34\] requesting the UE to
measure and report PRS-RSRP measurements defined in TS 38.215 \[4\].

#### 9.9.3.2 Requirements applicability

The requirements in clause 9.9.3 apply for periodic and triggered
PRS-RSRP measurements, provided:

\- PRS-RSRP related side conditions given in clause 10.1.24 are met for
a corresponding Band.

#### 9.9.3.3 Measurement Capability

UE PRS-RSRP measurement capability is as indicated by the UE in
*NR-DL-AoD-ProvideCapabilities* according to TS 37.355 \[34\].

#### 9.9.3.4 Measurement Reporting Requirements

This requirement assumes that the measurement report is not delayed by
other LPP signalling on the DCCH. This measurement reporting delay
excludes a delay uncertainty resulted when inserting the measurement
report to the TTI of the uplink DCCH. The delay uncertainty is: 2 x
TTI~DCCH~ where TTI~DCCH~ is the duration of subframe or slot or subslot
when the measurement report is transmitted on the PUSCH with subframe or
slot or subslot duration. This measurement reporting delay excludes any
delay caused by no UL resources for UE to send the measurement report.

The reported PRS-RSRP measurement values contained in measurement
reports shall be based on the measurement report mapping requirements
specified in clauses 10.1.24.3.

The PRS-RSRP measurement accuracy for all measured PRS resources shall
be fulfilled according to the accuracy requriements specified in the
clauses 10.1.24.

#### 9.9.3.5 Measurement Period Requirements

When the physical layer receives *NR-DL-AoD-ProvideAssistanceData*
message and *NR-DL-AoD-RequestLocationInformation message from LMF* via
LPP \[34\], the UE shall be able to measure multiple (up to the UE
capability specified in Clause 9.9.3.3) PRS-RSRP measurements, defined
in TS 38.215 \[4\], from configured PRS resources for configured TRPs on
configured positioning frequency layers, within
$T_{PRS - RSRP\text{,total}}$ ms.

$T_{PRS - RSRP\text{,\ total}} = \sum_{i = 1}^{L}{T_{PRS - RSRP\text{,i}} + \left( L - 1 \right)*\max\left( T_{effect,i} \right)}$

where

*i* is the index of positioning frequency layer,

L is total number of positioning frequency layers,

> $T_{effect,i}$ is the periodicity of the PRS-RSRP measurement in
> positioning frequency layer *i*.

$T_{PRS - RSRP,i} = {\left( {\text{CSSF}_{i}*N}_{\text{RxBeam},i}*\left\lceil \frac{N_{\text{PRS}\text{,i}}^{\text{slot}}}{N^{'}} \right\rceil\left\lceil \frac{L_{available\_ PRS,i}}{N} \right\rceil*N_{\text{sample}} - 1 \right)*T}_{effect,i} + \text{T}_{\text{last}}$

where

$\text{CSSF}_{i}$ is the carrier specific scaling factor for PRS-RSRP
measurements specified in clause 9.1.5.2,

$N_{RxBeam,i}\ $is the scaling factor for Rx beam sweeping, and
$N_{RxBeam,i}$=1 if positioning frequency layer *i* is in FR1 and
$N_{RxBeam,i}$=8 if positioning frequency layer *i* is in FR2,

> $L_{available\_ PRS,i}$ *is the time duration of available PRS to be
> measured in the positioning frequency layer i to be measured during*
> $T_{available\_ PRS,i}$*, and is calculated in the same way as PRS
> duration K defined in clause 5.1.6.5 of TS 38.214 \[26\]. For
> calculation of* $L_{available\_ PRS,i}$*, only the PRS resources
> unmuted and fully or partially overlapped with MG are considered.*

$N_{PRS,i}^{\text{slot}}$ is the maximum number of DL PRS resources of
positioning frequency layer i configured in a slot,

$\{ N,T\}$ is UE capability combination per band where N is a duration
of DL PRS symbols in ms corresponding to
*durationOfPRS-ProcessingSysmbols* in TS 37.355 \[34\] processed every T
ms corresponding to *durationOfPRS-ProcessingSymbolsInEveryTms* in TS
37.355 \[34\] for a given maximum bandwidth supported by UE
corresponding to *supportedBandwidthPRS* in TS 37.355 \[34\],

$N’$ is UE capability for number of DL PRS resources that it can process
in a slot as indicated by *maxNumOfDL-PRS-ResProcessedPerSlot* in clause
6.4.3 of TS 37.355 \[34\],

$N_{\text{sample}}$ is the number of PRS-RSRP measurement samples and
$N_{\text{sample}}$= 4,

$\text{T}_{\text{last}}$ *=* $T_{\text{i}}$
*+*$T_{available\_ PRS\text{,i}}$ is the measurement duration for the
last PRS-RSRP sample, including the sampling time and processing time,

> $T_{effect,i} = \ \left\lceil \frac{T_{i}}{T_{\text{available}\_\text{PRS},i}} \right\rceil*T_{\text{available}\_\text{PRS},i}$
> is the periodicity of PRS-RSRP measurement in positioning frequency
> layer *i*,

$T_{i}$ corresponds to *durationOfPRS-ProcessingSymbolsInEveryTms* in TS
37.355 \[34\],

$T_{\text{available}\_\text{PRS}\text{,i}} = \ \text{LCM}\left( T_{\text{PRS}\text{,i}},\text{MGRP}_{\text{i}} \right)\text{\ is}$
the least common multiple between $T_{\text{PRS}\text{,i}}$ and
$\text{MGRP}_{\text{i}}$ ,

$T_{PRS,i}$ is the maximum PRS resource periodicity among all PRS
resources in positioning frequency layer i,

$\text{MGRP}_{\text{i}}$ is the measurement gap repetition period in
positioning frequency layer *i*.

If positioning frequency layer *i* has more than one DL PRS resource set
with different PRS periodicities with muting,
${T_{\text{per}}^{\text{PRS\ with\ muting}} = N}_{\text{muting}}*T_{\text{per}}^{\text{PRS}}$,
the least common multiple of $T_{\text{per}}^{\text{PRS\ with\ muting}}$
among the DL PRS resource sets is used to derive $T_{PRS,i}$, where:

> $T_{\text{per}}^{\text{PRS}}$ is the periodicity of PRS resource sets
> given by the higher-layer parameter *DL-PRS-Periodicity*.
>
> $N_{\text{muting}}$ is the scaling factor considering PRS resource
> muting.
> $N_{\text{muting}} = T_{\text{muting}}^{\text{PRS}}*L_{\text{muting}}$,
> where $T_{\text{muting}}^{\text{PRS}}$ is the muting repetition factor
> given by the higher-layer parameter
> *DL-PRS-MutingBitRepetitionFactor*, and $L_{\text{muting}}$ is the
> size of the bitmap $\left\{ b^{1} \right\}$.

Note: For the purpose of calculating T~PRS,i~, only the PRS resources
fully or partially covered by the MG are considered.

When PRS-RSRP measurements are configured for DL-AoD, except for
deferred MT-LR as defined in clause 4.1a.5 \[TS 23.273\], the time
$T_{PRS - RSRP\text{,total}}$ starts from the first MG instance aligned
with DL PRS resources in the assistance data after both the
*NR-DL-AoD-RequestLocationInformation message and
NR-DL-AoD-ProvideAssistanceData message from LMF via LPP \[34\] are
delivered to the physical layer of UE.*

For deferred MT-LR with other event than "Periodic Location" as defined
in clause 4.1a.5.1 \[TS 23.273\], the time$\ T_{PRS - RSRP,total}$
starts from the first MG instance aligned with a DL PRS resource(s) in
the assistance data after the associated event(s) occurs.

For deferred MT-LR with event "Periodic Location" as defined in clause
4.1a.5.1 \[TS 23.273\], the UE shall perform the PRS-RSRP measurement in
each reporting period and activate the location report at the time when
the periodic timer expires.

Note: No per-positioning frequency layer requirement is applied in
scenarios when multiple positioning frequency layers are configured.

*When the PRS-RSRP measurement is configured together with RSTD
measurement then the PRS-RSRP measurement shall meet the* RSTD
measurement requirements defined in clause 9.9.2.

*When the PRS-RSRP measurement is configured together with UE Rx-Tx time
difference measurement then the PRS-RSRP measurement shall meet the UE
Rx-Tx time difference* measurement requirements defined in clause 9.9.4.

If CSSF changes during the measurement period, the measurement period
could be longer.

The measurement requirements do not apply for a PRS resource:

\- if the PRS resource is across two sampling duration of N within
duration $L_{available\_ PRS,i}$ or

\- if time span of the PRS resource instance (including at least the
minimum number of repetitions specified in the accuracy requirements) is
greater than UE reported capability N.

If during the measurement period of one or more positioning frequency
layers, the MG pattern is reconfigured either per UE request or not per
UE request, the measurement period can be longer.

The requirements in this section apply, provided no PRS symbols are
dropped during the measurement period $T_{PRS - RSRP,\ total}$ within
measurement gaps due to collisions with other signals; otherwise, a
longer measurement period may be used.

The requirements in clause 9.9.3 do not apply if the PRS configuration
given by higher layer paramters *NR-DL-PRS-AssistanceData* exceeds any
of the UE measurement capabilities given by
*NR-DL-PRS-ResourcesCapability* in *NR-DL-AoD-ProvideCapabilities, and
it is up to UE implementation which PRS resources are measured, subject
to* UE measurement capabilities*.*

If handover occurs while PRS-RSRP measurements are being performed then
the UE shall complete the ongoing PRS-RSRP measurements session. The
PRS-RSRP measurement period can be longer. The UE shall meet the
PRS-RSRP measurement accuracy requirements in clause 10.1.24.

### 9.9.4 UE Rx-Tx time difference measurements

#### 9.9.4.1 Introduction

The requirements in this clause shall apply, provided the UE has
received *nr-Multi-RTT-RequestLocationInformation* message from LMF via
LPP \[34\] requesting the UE to measure and report one or more UE Rx-Tx
time difference measurements defined in TS 38.215 \[4\].

#### 9.9.4.2 Requirements Applicability

The requirements in clause 9.9.4 apply for periodic and triggered UE
Rx-Tx time difference measurements, provided:

\- UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement related side conditions given in
clause 10.1.25 are met for a corresponding band.

\- SRS is configured on at least one of the PCell, PSCell and SCell.

\- The UE transmits SRS within \[-160, 160\] msec of at least one DL PRS
resource of each of the TRPs in the assistance data.

#### 9.9.4.3 Measurement Capability

UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement capability is as indicated by the
UE in *NR-Multi-RTT-ProvideCapabilities,* according to TS 37.355 \[34\].

#### 9.9.4.4 Measurement Reporting Requirements

This requirement assumes that the measurement report is not delayed by
other LPP signalling on the DCCH. This measurement reporting delay
excludes a delay uncertainty resulted when inserting the measurement
report to the TTI of the uplink DCCH. The delay uncertainty is: 2 x
TTIDCCH where TTIDCCH is the duration of subframe or slot or subslot
when the measurement report is transmitted on the PUSCH with subframe or
slot or subslot duration. This measurement reporting delay excludes any
delay caused by no UL resources for UE to send the measurement report.

The UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement values contained in measurement
reports shall be based on the measurement report mapping requirements
specified in clause 10.1.25.

The UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement accuracy for all measured DL
PRS resources shall be fulfilled according to the accuracy requirements
specified in clause 10.1.25.

#### 9.9.4.5 Measurement Period Requirements

When physical layer receives last of
*NR-Multi-RTT-ProvideAssistanceData* message and
*NR-Multi-RTT-RequestLocationInformation message from LMF via LPP
\[34\], UE shall be able to measure multiple* (up to the UE capability
specified in clause 9.9.4.3) *UE Rx-Tx time difference measurements as
defined* in TS 38.215 \[4\] in configured positioning frequency layers
within the measurement period $T_{UERxTx,Total}$ ms.

$T_{\text{UERxTx}\text{,\ Total}} = \sum_{i = 1}^{L}{T_{\text{UERxTx}\text{,i}} + \left( L - 1 \right)*\max\left( T_{effect,i} \right)}$*.*

where $i$ is the index of positioning frequency layer,

$T_{\text{UERxTx}\text{,i}}$ is the measurement period for UE Rx-Tx time
difference measurements in positioning frequency layer *i* as further
defined in this clause,

L is total number of positioning frequency layers, and

$T_{effect,i}$ is the periodicity of the UE Rx-Tx time difference
measurement in positioning frequency layer *i* as defined further in
this clause.

$$T_{UERxTx,i} = {\left( {\text{CSSF}_{i}*N}_{\text{RxBeam},i}*\left\lceil \frac{N_{\text{PRS}\text{,i}}^{\text{slot}}}{N^{'}} \right\rceil\left\lceil \frac{L_{available\_ PRS\text{,i}}}{N} \right\rceil*N_{\text{sample}} - 1 \right)*T}_{effect,i} + \text{T}_{\text{last},i}$$

Where

$\text{CSSF}_{i}$ is the carrier-specific scaling factor for NR
PRS-based measurement in the positioning frequency layer *i* as defined
in clause 9.1.5.2,

$N_{RxBeam,i}\ $is the scaling factor for Rx beam sweeping, and
$N_{RxBeam,i}$=1 if positioning frequency layer *i* is in FR1 and
$N_{RxBeam,i}$=8 if positioning frequency layer *i* is in FR2,

$L_{\text{available}\_ PRS,i}$ is the time duration of available PRS
resources in the positioning frequency layer *i*, to be measured during
$T_{\text{available}\_\text{PRS},i}$, and is calculated in the same way
as PRS duration K defined in clause 5.1.6.5 of TS 38.214 \[26\]. *For
calculation of* $L_{available\_ PRS,i}$*, only the PRS resources unmuted
and fully or partially overlapped with MG are considered.*

$N_{PRS,i}^{\text{slot}}$ is the maximum number of DL PRS resources of
positioning frequency layer i configured in a slot,

$\{ N,T\}$ is UE capability combination per band where N is a duration
of DL PRS symbols in ms corresponding to
*durationOfPRS-ProcessingSysmbols* in TS 37.355 \[34\] processed every T
ms corresponding to *durationOfPRS-ProcessingSymbolsInEveryTms* in TS
37.355 \[34\] for a given maximum bandwidth supported by UE
corresponding to *supportedBandwidthPRS* in clause 4.2.7.2 of TS 37.355
\[34\],

$N’$ is UE capability for number of DL PRS resources that it can process
in a slot corresponding to *maxNumOfDL-PRS-ResProcessedPerSlot* as
specified in clause 6.4.3 of TS 37.355 \[34\],

$N_{\text{sample}}$ is the number of UE Rx-Tx time difference
measurement samples and $N_{\text{sample}}$= 4,

$\text{T}_{\text{last,i}}$ is the measurement duration for the last UE
Rx-Tx time difference measurement sample in the positioning layer i,
including the sampling time and processing time,
$\text{T}_{\text{last,i}}$ *=* $T_{\text{i}}$ *+*
$T_{available\_ PRS\text{,i}}$ ,

$T_{effect,i}$ is periodicity of UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement in
positioning frequency layer *i*:

$T_{effect,i} = \ \left\lceil \frac{T_{i}}{T_{\text{available}\_\text{PRS},i}} \right\rceil*T_{\text{available}\_\text{PRS},i}$

where

$T_{i}$ corresponds to durationOfPRS-ProcessingSymbolsInEveryTms in TS
37.355 \[34\],

$T_{\text{available}\_\text{PRS}\text{,i}} = \ \text{LCM}\left( T_{\text{PRS}\text{,i}},\text{MGRP}_{\text{i}} \right)$,
the least common multiple between $T_{PRS,i}$ and
$\text{MGRP}_{\text{i}}$

$\text{MGRP}_{\text{i}}$ is the measurement gap repetition periodicity
in positioning frequency layer i.

$T_{PRS,i}$ is the PRS resource periodicity in positioning frequency
layer *i*. If the positioning frequency layer *i* has more than one DL
PRS resource sets with different PRS periodicities with muting,
${T_{\text{per}}^{\text{PRS\ with\ muting}} = N}_{\text{muting}}*T_{\text{per}}^{\text{PRS}}$,
the least common multiple of $T_{\text{per}}^{\text{PRS\ with\ muting}}$
among DL PRS resource sets is used to derive $T_{PRS,i}$, where

> $T_{\text{per}}^{\text{PRS}}$ is the periodicity of PRS resource sets
> given by the higher-layer parameter *DL-PRS-Periodicity*.
>
> $N_{\text{muting}}$ is the scaling factor considering PRS resource
> muting.
> $N_{\text{muting}} = T_{\text{muting}}^{\text{PRS}}*L_{\text{muting}}$,
> where $T_{\text{muting}}^{\text{PRS}}$ is the muting repetition factor
> given by the higher-layer parameter
> *DL-PRS-MutingBitRepetitionFactor*, and $L_{\text{muting}}$ is the
> size of the bitmap $\left\{ b^{1} \right\}$.

Note: For the purpose of calculating T~PRS,i~, only the PRS resources
fully or partially covered by the MG are considered.

Except for deferred MT-LR as defined in clause 4.1a.5 \[TS 23.273\], the
time $T_{UERxTx,Total}$ starts from the first MG instance aligned with
DL PRS resources in the assistance data after both the
*NR-Multi-RTT-RequestLocationInformation message and
NR-Multi-RTT-ProvideAssistanceData message from LMF via LPP \[34\] are
delivered to the physical layer of UE.*

For deferred MT-LR with other event than "Periodic Location" as defined
in clause 4.1a.5.1 \[TS 23.273\], the time$\ T_{UERxTx,Total}$ starts
from the first MG instance aligned with a DL PRS resource(s) in the
assistance data after the associated event(s) occurs.

For deferred MT-LR with event "Periodic Location" as defined in clause
4.1a.5.1 \[TS 23.273\], the UE shall perform the PRS-RSRP measurement in
each reporting period and activate the location report at the time when
the periodic timer expires.

Note: No per-positioning frequency layer requirement is applied in
scenarios when multiple positioning frequency layers are configured.

The UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement period is restarted if HO
occurs during the measurement period and after SRS reconfiguration on
the target cell is complete.

The measurement requirements do not apply for a PRS resource:

\- if the PRS resource is across two sampling duration of N within
duration $L_{available\_ PRS,i}$ or

\- if time span of the PRS resource instance (including at least the
minimum number of repetitions specified in the accuracy requirements) is
greater than UE reported capability N.

If during the measurement period of one or more positioning frequency
layers, the MG pattern is reconfigured either per UE request or not per
UE request, the measurement period can be longer.

The requirements in this section apply, provided no PRS symbols are
dropped during the measurement period T~UERxTx,Total~ within measurement
gaps due to collisions with other signals; otherwise, a longer
measurement period may be used.

When PRS-RSRP is configured for multi-RTT, the UE Rx-Tx time difference
measurements and PRS-RSRP measurements are performed over the same
measurement period.

The requirements in clause 9.9.4 do not apply if the PRS configuration
given by higher layer paramters *NR-DL-PRS-AssistanceData* exceeds any
of the UE measurement capabilities given by
*NR-DL-PRS-ResourcesCapability* in *NR-Multi-RTT-ProvideCapabilities,
and it is up to UE implementation which PRS resources are measured,
subject to* UE measurement capabilities*.*

When PSCell or SCell addition or release does not cause SRS
reconfiguration during the measurement period, UE continues the UE Rx-Tx
time difference measurement, and the measurement period requirements
apply.

When PSCell or SCell addition or release causes SRS reconfiguration
during the measurement period, UE shall restart the UE Rx-Tx time
difference measurement after the SRS reconfiguration on the target cell
is complete.

When SRS is reconfigured without serving cell change during the
measurement period, UE shall restart the UE Rx-Tx time difference
measurement after the SRS reconfiguration is complete.If UE uplink
transmission timing changes due to the network-configured Timing Advance
command during the UE Rx-Tx measurement period, then the UE Rx-Tx time
difference measurement period is restarted after uplink transmission
timing changes, and the UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement period
requirements in this clause shall not apply.

When a serving cell change occurs during the measurement period, the UE
shall continue and complete the UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement
provided that the serving cell change does not impact SRS configuration
for the UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement.

If UE uplink transmission timing changes due to the change in the
N~TA\_offset~ defined in Table 7.1.2-2 during the UE Rx-Tx measurement
period, then the UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement period is
restarted after uplink transmission timing changes, and the UE Rx-Tx
time difference measurement period requirements in this clause shall not
apply.

If UE uplink transmission timing changes due to the UE autonomous timing
adjustment defined in clause 7.1.2 during the UE Rx-Tx measurement
period, then:

\- UE Rx-Tx measurement period requirements in this clause shall apply
for a cell, which is also the downlink reference cell (defined in
section 7.1.1) for SRS transmission.

\- UE Rx-Tx measurement period requirements in this clause shall not
apply for a cell, which is not the downlink reference cell (defined in
section 7.1.1) for SRS transmission. The UE Rx-Tx time difference
measurement period may be restarted in such case.

### 9.9.5 NR E-CID measurements

#### 9.9.5.1 Introduction

The requirements in clause 9.9.5 shall apply provided the UE has
received *nr-ECID-RequestLocationInformation* message from LMF via LPP
\[34\] requesting the UE to report one or more of the following
measurements for NR E-CID positioning \[22\]: SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ,
CSI-RSRP, and CSI-RSRQ.

#### 9.9.5.2 Measurement Requirements

##### 9.9.5.2.1 Intra-frequency Measurement Requirements

The intra-frequency NR E-CID measurements shall meet the requirements in
clause 9.2 and clause 9.10.2, except the measurement reporting
requirements. The NR E-CID measurement reporting requirements are
defined in clause 9.9.5.2.3.

The reported intra-frequency NR E-CID measurements shall also meet:

\- for FR1 SS-RSRP, the accuracy requirements in clauses 10.1.2.1,

\- for FR1 SS-RSRQ, the accuracy requirements in clauses 10.1.7.1,

\- for FR1 CSI-RSRP, the accuracy requirements in clause 10.1.2.3,

\- for FR1 CSI-RSRQ, the accuracy requirements in clause 10.1.7.2,

\- for FR2 SS-RSRP, the accuracy requirements in clauses 10.1.3.1,

\- for FR2 SS-RSRQ, the accuracy requirements in clauses 10.1.8.1,

\- for FR2 CSI-RSRP, the accuracy requirements in clause 10.1.3.3,

\- for FR2 CSI-RSRQ, the accuracy requirements in clause 10.1.8.2.

##### 9.9.5.2.2 Inter-frequency Measurement Requirements

The inter-frequency NR E-CID measurements shall meet the requirements in
clause 9.3 and 9.10.4, except the measurement reporting requirements.
The NR E-CID measurement reporting requirements are defined in clause
9.9.5.2.3.

The reported inter-frequency NR E-CID measurements shall also meet:

\- for FR1 SS-RSRP, the accuracy requirements in clauses 10.1.4.1,

\- for FR1 SS-RSRQ, the accuracy requirements in clauses 10.1.9.1,

\- for FR1 CSI-RSRP, the accuracy requirements 10.1.4.3,

\- for FR1 CSI-RSRQ, the accuracy requirements 10.1.9.2,

\- for FR2 SS-RSRP, the accuracy requirements in clauses 10.1.5.1,

\- for FR2 SS-RSRQ, the accuracy requirements in clauses 10.1.10.1,

\- for FR2 CSI-RSRP, the accuracy requirements 10.1.5.3,

\- for FR2 CSI-RSRQ, the accuracy requirements 10.1.10.2.

##### 9.9.5.2.3 Measurement Reporting Delay

The measurement reporting delay is defined as the time between the
moment when the periodic measurement report is triggered and the moment
when the UE starts to transmit the measurement report over the air
interface. This requirement assumes that that the measurement report is
not delayed by other LPP signalling on the DCCH. This measurement
reporting delay excludes a delay uncertainty resulted when inserting the
measurement report to the TTI of the uplink DCCH. The delay uncertainty
is: 2 x TTI~DCCH~ where TTI~DCCH~ is the duration of subframe or slot or
subslot when the measurement report is transmitted on the PUSCH with
subframe or slot or subslot duration. This measurement reporting delay
excludes any delay caused by no UL resources for UE to send the
measurement report.

The reported NR E-CID measurement values contained in periodically
triggered measurement reports shall be based on the measurement report
mapping requirements specified in clause 10.1.6 for SS-RSRP and
CSI-RSRP, and clause 10.1.11 for SS-RSRQ and CSI-RSRQ.

The UE shall not send any measurement reports as long as no
corresponding reporting criteria specified in clause 9.1.4 are
fulfilled.

9.10 CSI-RS based L3 measurements
---------------------------------

### 9.10.1 Introduction

This clause contains general requirements on the UE regarding CSI-RS
based measurement reporting in RRC\_CONNECTED state. The requirements
are split in intra-frequency and inter-frequency measurements
requirements.

The requirements in this clause apply, provided:

\- Only one MO is configured per CSI-RS frequency layer, and

\- all CSI-RS resources in the same MO are configured with the same
csi-rs-MeasurementBW, and

\- all CSI-RS resources in the same MO are configured with the same
periodicity, and

\- *associatedSSB* is configured in *CSI-RS-Resource-Mobility* and
detectable, and

\- the associated SSB is QCLed with the corresponding CSI-RS resources
in FR2, and

\- the number of CSI-RS resources in any duration that equals to the
length of a slot is no larger than UE capability
*maxNumberCSI-RS-RRM-RS-SINR*.

\- When there are mixed numerologies, the length of a slot is defined
based on the smallest SCS

### 9.10.2 CSI-RS based intra-frequency measurements

#### 9.10.2.1 Introduction

A measurement is defined as a CSI-RS based intra-frequency measurement
provided that:

\- the SCS of the CSI-RS resource of the neighbour cell configured for
measurement is the same as the SCS of the CSI-RS resource on the serving
cell indicated for measurement, and

\- the CP type of the CSI-RS resource of neighbour cell configured for
measurement is the same as the CP type of the CSI-RS resource of the
serving cell indicated for measurement, and

\- It is applied for SCS = 60KHz

\- the centre frequency of the CSI-RS resource of the neighbour cell
configured for measurement is the same as the centre frequency of the
CSI-RS resource of the serving cell indicated for measurement

The UE shall be able to identify new intra-frequency cells and perform
CSI-RSRP, CSI-RSRQ and CSI-SINR measurements of identified
intra-frequency cells if carrier frequency information is provided by
PCell or the PSCell.

No measurement gap is needed for intra-frequency CSI-RS resources
measurements.

For intra-frequency CSI-RS based measurements, UE may cause scheduling
restriction as specified in clause9.10.2.6.

Note: Extended CP for CSI-RS based measurement is not supported in this
release.

#### 9.10.2.2 Requirements applicability

The measurement of the associated SSB follows the same requirements as
SSB based measurements defined in 9.2.

The requirements in clause 9.10.2 apply, provided:

> \- Only one intra-frequency CSI-RS layer per serving cell is
> configured, and

\- The BW of the CSI-RS on the intra-frequency neighbor cell is within
the active BWP of the UE, and

\- The associated SSB of the CSI-RS resources being identified or
measured are detectable, and the CSI-RS resources configured for CSI-RS
based L3 measurements are measurable, and

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS resources of intra-MO is the same as that of
the CSI-RS resources configured for the serving cell, and

\- All CSI-RS resources on one intra-frequency layer are configured
within up to two separate windows where each window is up to 5ms, and

-   for the case of single window further provided

> \- The periodicity of the configured CSI-RS resources is 10ms, 20ms or
> 40ms

-   for the case of two separate windows further provided

> \- The two windows are either both fully non-overlapped with MG or
> both partially overlapped with MG
>
> \- The periodicity of the configured CSI-RS resources is 20ms or 40ms
>
> \- The starting point of the first window is the slot boundary of the
> serving cell, where the corresponding slot contains the configured L3
> CSI-RS resource of the serving cell in the servingCellMO with the
> smallest offset, and
>
> \- The starting point of the second window if configured is determined
> by an offset of half of the CSI-RS periodicity in slots with regards
> to the starting point of the first window, and

\- Numerology for intra-frequency CSI-RS and data of serving cell are
the same.

An intra-frequency cell shall be considered detectable when for each
relevant associated SSB:

SS-RSRP related side conditions given in clauses 10.1.2.1 and 10.1.3.1
for FR1 and FR2, respectively, for a corresponding Band,

\- SS-RSRQ related side conditions given in clauses 10.1.7.1 and
10.1.8.1 for FR1 and FR2, respectively, for a corresponding Band,

\- SS-SINR related side conditions given in clauses 10.1.12.1 and
10.1.13.1 for FR1 and FR2, respectively, for a corresponding Band,

\- SSB\_RP and SSB Ês/Iot according to Annex B.2.2 for a corresponding
Band.

A CSI-RS resource shall be considered measurable when for each relevant
CSI-RS resource:

\- CSI-RSRP related side conditions given in clauses 10.1.2.3 and
10.1.3.3 for FR1 and FR2, respectively, for a corresponding Band,

\- CSI-RSRQ related side conditions given in clauses 10.1.7.2 and
10.1.8.2 for FR1 and FR2, respectively, for a corresponding Band,

\- CSI-SINR related side conditions given in clauses 10.1.12.2 and
10.1.13.2 for FR1 and FR2, respectively, for a corresponding Band,

\- CSI\_RP and CSI-RS Ês/Iot according to Annex B.2.12 for a
corresponding Band.

#### 9.10.2.3 Number of cells and number of CSI-RS

##### 9.10.2.3.1 Requirements for FR1

For each intra-frequency CSI-RS layer, during each layer 1 measurement
period, the UE shall be capable of performing CSI-RSRP, CSI-RSRQ, and
CSI-SINR measurements for at least:

\- 32 CSI-RSs with different CSI-RS index and/or PCI on the
intra-frequency layer, and

\- the cells to be monitored based on CSI-RS are the same set or a
subset of the cells monitored based on the layer of the associated SSB

##### 9.10.2.3.2 Requirements for FR2

For one single intra-frequency CSI-RS layer in a band, during each layer
1 measurement period, the UE shall be capable of performing CSI-RSRP,
CSI-RSRQ, and CSI-SINR measurements for at least:

\- 32 CSI-RSs with different CSI-RS index and/or PCI, and

\- the cells to be monitored based on CSI-RS are the same set or a
subset of the cells monitored based on the layer of the associated SSB.

where this single intra-frequency layer shall be:

\- PCC on which UE is configured to report CSI-RS measurement when UE is
configured with SA NR operation mode with PCC in the band; or

\- PSCC on which UE is configured to report CSI-RS measurement when UE
is configured with EN-DC with PSCC in the band; or

\- One of the SCCs on which UE is configured to report CSI-RS based
measurements when neither PCC nor PSCC is in the same band, so that the
selected SCC shall be an SCC where the UE is configured with CSI-RSRP
measurement reporting if such SCC exists, otherwise the selected SCC is
determined by UE implementation.

The UE shall also be capable of performing CSI-RSRP, CSI-RSRQ, and
CSI-SINR measurements for at least 2 CSI-RSs on serving cell for each of
the other intra-frequency layer(s) in the same band.

For each FR2 band, UE is only required to measure neighbour cell CSI-RS
on the CSI-RS layer, whose associated SSB should be on the same SSB
layer as the one where UE is required to measure neighbour cell SSB.

#### 9.10.2.4 Measurement Reporting Requirements

Note: The UE is not required to report CSI-RS based L3 measurements when
the timing offset between the reference measurement timing and the
target CSI-RS in one layer is larger than one CP. If the UE reports
CSI-RS based L3 measurements when the timing offset exceeds one CP, the
UE may not meet the CSI-RS based L3 measurement accuracy requirements
for CSI-RSRP, CSI-RSRQ and CSI-SINR in TS 38.133 section 10.1, which
apply only when the timing offset is no larger than one CP.

##### 9.10.2.4.1 Periodic Reporting

Reported CSI-RSRP, CSI-RSRQ, and CSI-SINR measurements contained in
periodic measurement reports shall meet the requirements in clauses
10.1.2.3, 10.1.3.3, 10.1.7.2, 10.1.8.2, 10.1.12.2 and 10.1.13.2.

##### 9.10.2.4.2 Event-triggered Periodic Reporting

Reported CSI-RSRP, CSI-RSRQ, and CSI-SINR measurements contained in
event-triggered periodic measurement reports shall meet the requirements
in clauses 10.1.2.3, 10.1.3.3, 10.1.7.2, 10.1.8.2, 10.1.12.2 and
10.1.13.2.

The first report in event triggered periodic measurement reporting shall
meet the requirements specified in clause 9.10.2.4.3.

##### 9.10.2.4.3 Event Triggered Reporting

Reported CSI-RSRP, CSI-RSRQ, and CSI- SINR measurements contained in
event triggered measurement reports shall meet the requirements in
clauses 10.1.2.3, 10.1.3.3, 10.1.7.2, 10.1.8.2, 10.1.12.2 and 10.1.13.2.

The UE shall not send any event triggered measurement reports as long as
no reporting criterion is fulfilled.

The measurement reporting delay is defined as the time between an event
that will trigger a measurement report and the point when the UE starts
to transmit the measurement report over the air interface. This
requirement assumes that the measurement report is not delayed by other
RRC signalling on the DCCH. This measurement reporting delay excludes a
delay uncertainty resulted when inserting the measurement report to the
TTI of the uplink DCCH. The delay uncertainty is: 2 x TTI~DCCH~. This
measurement reporting delay excludes a delay which caused by no UL
resources being available for UE to send the measurement report on.

The event triggered measurement reporting delay, measured without L3
filtering shall be less than the CSI-RS based measurement defined in
clause 9.10.2.5. When L3 filtering is used an additional delay can be
expected.

#### 9.10.2.5 Intra-frequency measurements without measurement gaps

If a UE is configured with the higher layer parameters
*CSI-RS-Resource-Mobility* and *associatedSSB*, the CSI-RS based
measurement shall include PSS/SSS detection time of associatedSSB, the
time period used to acquire the SFN information and CSI-RS based
measurement period without gap.

\- PSS/SSS detection time of associatedSSB is the intra-frequency
T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_intra~ in Clause 9.2.5.1.

\- The time period used to acquire the SFN information is equal to 0 if
the UE is indicated that the neighbour cell is synchronous with the
serving cell (*deriveSSB-IndexFromCell* is enabled). Otherwise, the time
period used to acquire the SFN information is T~CSI-RS\_SFN\_intra~ as
shown in Table 9.10.2.5-3 for FR1. It is assumed that
*deriveSSB-IndexFromCell* is always enabled for FR1 TDD and FR2.

\- If the associatedSSB, which has been detectable at least for the time
period T~identify\_intra\_with\_index~ defined in clause 9.2.5.1,
becomes undetectable for a period ≤ 5 seconds and then the associatedSSB
becomes detectable again with the same spatial reception parameter
provided the timing to that cell has not changed more than ±
3200/$2^{µ}$ T~c~, where *µ* is the SCS configuration as defined in
clause 4.2 of TS 38.211 \[3\], PSS/SSS detection time and time period
used to acquire the SFN information are equal to 0.

The measurement period for CSI-RS based intra-frequency measurements
without gaps is as shown in table 9.10.2.5-1and Table 9.10.2.5-2.

Additionally, for a given CSI-RS resource, if the associated SS/PBCH
block is configured but not detected by the UE, or if CSI-RS is
configured with associated SSB but not QCL-ed to the associated SSB, the
UE is not required to monitor the corresponding CSI-RS resource.

Table 9.10.2.5-1: Measurement period for intra-frequency CSI-RS based
measurements without gaps (FR1)

  DRX cycle                                                                                                                                                                                                T ~CSI-RS\_measurement\_period\_intra~
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  No DRX                                                                                                                                                                                                   max(200ms, ceil( 5 x K~p\_CSI-RS~) x CSI-RS period) x CSSF~intra~
  DRX cycle≤ 320ms                                                                                                                                                                                         max(200ms, ceil(1.5x 5 x K~p\_CSI-RS~) x max(CSI-RS period, DRX cycle)) x CSSF~intra~
  DRX cycle\>320ms                                                                                                                                                                                         ceil( 5 x K~p\_CSI-RS~) x DRX cycle x CSSF~intra~
  NOTE 1: The requirements apply assuming CSI-RS configuration with {D=3 with PRBs ≥ 48}. D is frequency domain density for the 1-port CSI-RS for L3 mobility defined in clause 7.4.1 of TS38.211 \[6\].   

Table 9.10.2.5-2: Measurement period for intra-frequency CSI-RS based
measurements without gaps (FR2)

  DRX cycle                                                                                                                                                                                                T ~CSI-RS\_measurement\_period\_intra~
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  No DRX                                                                                                                                                                                                   max(400ms, ceil(M~meas\_period\_w/o\_gaps~ x K~p\_CSI-RS~) x CSI-RS period) x CSSF~intra~
  DRX cycle≤ 320ms                                                                                                                                                                                         max(400ms, ceil(1.5x M~meas\_period\_w/o\_gaps~ x K~p\_CSI-RS~) x max(CSI-RS period,DRX cycle)) x CSSF~intra~
  DRX cycle\>320ms                                                                                                                                                                                         M~meas\_period\_w/o\_gaps~ x DRX cycle x CSSF~intra~
  NOTE 1: The requirements apply assuming CSI-RS configuration with {D=3 with PRBs ≥ 48}. D is frequency domain density for the 1-port CSI-RS for L3 mobility defined in clause 7.4.1 of TS38.211 \[6\].   

Table 9.10.2.5-3: Time period for SFN acquisition for intra-frequency
CSI-RS based measurements without gaps (FR1)

  DRX cycle                                                                                                                                                     T~CSI-RS\_SFN\_intra~
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  No DRX                                                                                                                                                        max(200ms, ceil(5 x K~p~ ) x SMTC period)^Note\ 1^ x CSSF~intra~
  DRX cycle≤ 320ms                                                                                                                                              max(2000ms, ceil (1.5 x 5 x K~p~) x max(SMTC period,DRX cycle)) x CSSF~intra~
  DRX cycle\>320ms                                                                                                                                              Ceil(5 x K~p~) x DRX cycle x CSSF~intra~
  NOTE 1: If different SMTC periodicities are configured for different cells, the SMTC period in the requirement is the one used by the cell being identified   

M~meas\_period\_w/o\_gaps~ : For a UE supporting power class 1,
M~meas\_period\_w/o\_gaps~ = 40. For a UE supporting FR2 power class 2,
M~meas\_period\_w/o\_gaps~ = 24. For a UE supporting power class 3,
M~meas\_period\_w/o\_gaps~ = 24. For a UE supporting power class 4,
M~meas\_period\_w/o\_gaps~ = 24.

CSSF~intra~: it is a carrier specific scaling factor and is determined
according to CSSF~outside\_gap,i~ in clause 9.1.5.

\- if intra-frequency CSI-RS resource is fully non overlapping with
measurement gaps, K~p\_CSI-RS~=1;

\- if intra-frequency CSI-RS resource is partially overlapping with
measurement gaps, K~p\_CSI-RS~ = 1/(1- (CSI-RS resource period /MGRP)),
where CSI-RS resource period \< MGRP.

#### 9.10.2.6 Scheduling availability of UE during CSI-RS based intra-frequency measurements 

UE is required to be capable of measuring without measurement gaps when
CSI-RS resources are completely contained in the active BWP of the UE.
Note the configured CSI-RS symbol is indicated in
*firstOFDMSymbolInTimeDomain* included in
*CSI-RS-ResourceConfigMobility* for RRM. When UE is required to perform
CSI-RS based RRM measurements, and any of the conditions in the
following clauses is met, there are restrictions on the scheduling
availability; otherwise, there is no scheduling restriction. Note same
numerology for intra-frequency CSI-RS and data of serving cell is
considered in this release.

##### 9.10.2.6.1 Scheduling availability of UE performing CSI-RS based measurements in TDD bands

When UE performs CSI-RS intra-frequency measurements in a TDD band,

\- UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS on configured CSI-RS
resource symbols, and on 1 OFDM symbol before and after each
consecutively configured CSI-RS symbols.

When TDD intra-band carrier aggregation is performed, the scheduling
restrictions due to a given serving cell should also apply to all other
serving cells in the same band on the symbols that fully or partially
overlap with the aforementioned restricted symbols.

##### 9.10.2.6.2 Scheduling availability of UE performing CSI-RS based measurements in FR2 

When the UE performs CSI-RS based intra-frequency measurements for L3
mobility management in FR2, the following restrictions apply.

\- The UE is not expected to transmit PUCCH/PUSCH/SRS or receive
PDCCH/PDSCH/TRS/CSI-RS for CQI on the configured CSI-RS symbol within
the configured slot as indicated in *slotConfig of the corresponding
CSI-RS resource to be measured for mobility.*

When intra-band carrier aggregation in FR2 is performed, the scheduling
restrictions due to a given serving cell should also apply to all other
serving cells in the same band on the symbols that fully or partially
overlap with aforementioned restricted symbols.

When inter-band carrier aggregation in FR2 is performed, there are no
scheduling restrictions on FR2 serving cells in the bands due to
CSI-RSRP, CSI-RSRQ or CSI-SINR measurement on an FR2 intra-frequency
cell in different bands, provided that UE is capable of independent beam
management on this FR2 band pair.

### 9.10.3 CSI-RS based Inter-frequency measurements

#### 9.10.3.1 Introduction

A measurement is defined as a CSI-RS based inter-frequency measurement
provided it is not defined as an intra-frequency measurement according
to clause 9.10.2.

If a UE is configured with the higher layer parameter
*CSI-RS-Resource-Mobility* and the higher layer parameter
*associatedSSB* is configured, the UE shall be able to identify
inter-frequency cells indicated for measurement and perform CSI-RSRP,
CSI-RSRQ, and CSI-SINR measurements of identified inter-frequency cells.

When measurement gaps are needed, the UE is not expected to detect the
associated SSB nor perform measurement of the CSI-RS resource configured
in *CSI-RS-Resource-Mobility* on an inter-frequency measurement object
which start earlier than the gap starting time + switching time, and
ends later than the gap end -- switching time. When the inter-frequency
cells are in FR2 and the per-FR gap is configured to the UE in EN-DC, SA
NR, NE-DC and NR-DC, or the serving cells are in FR2, the
inter-frequency cells are in FR2 and the per-UE gap is configured to the
UE in SA NR and NR-DC, the switching time is 0.25ms. Otherwise the
switching time is 0.5ms.

#### 9.10.3.2 Requirements applicability

The associated SSB layer of the CSI-RS follows the same requirements as
SSB based measurements defined in 9.3.

The requirements in clause 9.10.3 apply, provided:

\- The associated SSB of the cell being identified or measured is
detectable, and

\- All CSI-RS resources on one inter-frequency layer are configured
within a window of up to 5ms, and

\- The periodicity of the configured CSI-RS resources is 10ms, 20ms or
40ms, and

\- CSI-RS resources for measurements and the associated SSB for cell
identification are configured within measurement gap.

An inter-frequency cell shall be considered detectable when for each
relevant associated SSB:

\- SS-RSRP related side conditions given in clauses 10.1.4.1 and
10.1.5.1 for FR1 and FR2, respectively, for a corresponding Band,

\- SS-RSRQ related side conditions given in clauses 10.1.9.1 and
10.1.10.1 for FR1 and FR2, respectively, for a corresponding Band,

\- SS-SINR related side conditions given in clauses 10.1.14.1 and
10.1.15.1 for FR1 and FR2, respectively, for a corresponding Band,

\- SSB\_RP and SSB Ês/Iot according to Annex B.2.3 for a corresponding
Band.

A CSI-RS resource shall be considered measurable when for each relevant
CSI-RS resource:

\- CSI-RSRP related side conditions given in clauses 10.1.4.3 and
10.1.5.3 for FR1 and FR2, respectively, for a corresponding Band,

\- CSI-RSRQ related side conditions given in clauses 10.1.9.2 and
10.1.10.2 for FR1 and FR2, respectively, for a corresponding Band,

\- CSI-SINR related side conditions given in clauses 10.1.14.2 and
10.1.15.2 for FR1 and FR2, respectively, for a corresponding Band,

\- CSI \_RP and CSI-RS Ês/Iot according to Annex B.2.13 for a
corresponding Band.

#### 9.10.3.3 Number of cells and number of CSI-RS resources

##### 9.10.3.3.1 Requirements for FR1

For each inter-frequency CSI-RS layer, during each layer 1 measurement
period, the UE shall be capable of performing CSI-RSRP, CSI-RSRQ, and
CSI-SINR measurements for at least:

\- 14 CSI-RSs with different CSI-RS index and/or PCI , and

\- The cells to be monitored based on CSI-RS are the same set or a
subset of the cells monitored based on the layer of the associated SSB.

##### 9.10.3.3.2 Requirements for FR2

For each inter-frequency CSI-RS layer, during each layer 1 measurement
period, the UE shall be capable of performing CSI-RSRP, CSI-RSRQ, and
CSI-SINR measurements for at least:

\- 24 CSI-RSs with different CSI-RS index and/or PCI, and

\- The cells to be monitored based on CSI-RS are the same set or a
subset of the cells monitored based on the layer the associated SSB.

#### 9.10.3.4 Measurements reporting requirements

Note: The UE is not required to report CSI-RS based L3 measurements when
the timing offset between the reference measurement timing and the
target CSI-RS in one layer is larger than one CP. If the UE reports
CSI-RS based L3 measurements when the timing offset exceeds one CP, the
UE may not meet the CSI-RS based L3 measurement accuracy requirements
for CSI-RSRP, CSI-RSRQ and CSI-SINR in TS 38.133 section 10.1, which
apply only when the timing offset is no larger than one CP.

##### 9.10.3.4.1 Periodic Reporting

Reported CSI-RSRP, CSI-RSRQ, and CSI-SINR measurements contained in
periodically triggered measurement reports shall meet the requirements
in clauses 10.1.4.2, 10.1.5.2, 10.1.9.2, 10.1.10.2, 10.1.14.2 and
10.1.15.2.

##### 9.10.3.4.2 Event-triggered Periodic Reporting

Reported CSI-RSRP, CSI-RSRQ, and CSI-SINR measurements contained in
periodically triggered measurement reports shall meet the requirements
in clauses 10.1.4.2, 10.1.5.2, 10.1.9.2, 10.1.10.2, 10.1.14.2 and
10.1.15.2.

The first report in event triggered periodic measurement reporting shall
meet the requirements specified in clause 9.10.3.4.3.

##### 9.10.3.4.3 Event-triggered Reporting

Reported CSI-RSRP, CSI-RSRQ, and CSI-SINR measurements contained in
periodically triggered measurement reports shall meet the requirements
in clauses 10.1.4.2, 10.1.5.2, 10.1.9.2, 10.1.10.2, 10.1.14.2 and
10.1.15.2.

The UE shall not send any event triggered measurement reports, as long
as no reporting criteria are fulfilled.

The measurement reporting delay is defined as the time between an event
that will trigger a measurement report and the point when the UE starts
to transmit the measurement report over the air interface. This
requirement assumes that the measurement report is not delayed by other
RRC signalling on the DCCH. This measurement reporting delay excludes a
delay uncertainty resulted when inserting the measurement report to the
TTI of the uplink DCCH. The delay uncertainty is: 2 × TTI~DCCH~. This
measurement reporting delay excludes a delay which caused by no UL
resources for UE to send the measurement report.

The event triggered measurement reporting delay, measured without L3
filtering shall be within CSI-RS based measurement defined in clause
9.10.3.5. When L3 filtering is used an additional delay can be expected.

#### 9.10.3.5 Inter frequency measurements with measurement gaps

When measurement gaps are provided, if configured with the higher layer
parameters *CSI-RS-Resource-Mobility* and *associatedSSB,* the UE shall
be able to identify a new detectable CSI-RS based inter frequency cell
within T ~CSI-RS\_identify\_inter~,

T ~CSI-RS\_identify\_inter~ = (T~PSS/SSS\_sync~ + T
~CSI-RS\_measurement\_period\_inter~ + T~CSI-RS\_SFN\_inter~) ms

Where:

T~PSS/SSS\_sync~ is the time period used in PSS/SSS detection which is
determined according to T~PSS/SSS\_sync\_inter~ in clause 9.3.4,

T~CSI-RS\_SFN\_inter~ is the time period used to acquire the SFN
information of the cell being measured, which is shown in Table
9.10.3.5-3 for FR1 and equals inter-frequency T~SSB\_time\_index\_inter~
in Clause 9.3.4 for FR2,

T~CSI-RS\_measurement\_period\_inter~: equal to a measurement period of
CSI-RS based measurement given in table 9.10.3.5-1 and table 9.10.3.5-2.

M~meas\_period\_inter~: For a UE supporting FR2 power class 1,
M~meas\_period\_inter~ =8×N samples. For a UE supporting FR2 power class
2, M~meas\_period\_inter~=5×N samples. For a UE supporting FR2 power
class 3, M~meas\_period\_inter~ =5×N samples. For a UE supporting FR2
power class 4, M~meas\_period\_inter~ = 5×N samples. Note that scaling
factor N = \[8\]. CSSF~inter~: it is a carrier specific scaling factor
and is determined according to CSSF~within\_gap,i~ in clause 9.1.5 for
measurement conducted within measurement gaps.

Additionally, for a given CSI-RS resource, if the associated SSB is
configured but not detected by the UE, or if CSI-RS configured with
associated SSB but not QCL-ed to the associated SSB, the UE is not
required to monitor the corresponding CSI-RS resource.

Table 9.10.3.5-1: Measurement period for CSI-RS based inter-frequency
measurements with gaps (FR1)

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Condition ^NOTE1,2^              | T                                |
|                                  | ~CSI                             |
|                                  | -RS\_measurement\_period\_inter~ |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | Max(200ms, 8 × Max(MGRP, CSI-RS  |
|                                  | period)) × CSSF~inter~           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                | Max(200ms, Ceil(8 × 1.5) ×       |
|                                  | Max(MGRP, CSI-RS period, DRX     |
|                                  | cycle)) × CSSF~inter~            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle \> 320ms               | 8 × DRX cycle × CSSF~inter~      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: DRX or non DRX           |                                  |
| requirements apply according to  |                                  |
| the conditions described in      |                                  |
| clause 3.6.1                     |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: In EN-DC operation, the  |                                  |
| parameters, timers and           |                                  |
| scheduling requests referred to  |                                  |
| in clause 3.6.1 are for the      |                                  |
| secondary cell group. The DRX    |                                  |
| cycle is the DRX cycle of the    |                                  |
| secondary cell group.            |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

Table 9.10.3.5-2: Measurement period for CSI-RS based inter-frequency
measurements with gaps (FR2)

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Condition ^NOTE1,2^              | T                                |
|                                  | ~CSI                             |
|                                  | -RS\_measurement\_period\_inter~ |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | Max(400 ms,                      |
|                                  | M~meas\_period\_inter~ ×         |
|                                  | Max(MGRP, CSI-RS period)) ×      |
|                                  | CSSF~inter~                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                | Max(400 ms, (1.5 ×               |
|                                  | M~meas\_period\_inter~) ×        |
|                                  | Max(MGRP, CSI-RS period, DRX     |
|                                  | cycle)) × CSSF~inter~            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle \> 320ms               | M~meas\_period\_inter~ × DRX     |
|                                  | cycle × CSSF~inter~              |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: DRX or non DRX           |                                  |
| requirements apply according to  |                                  |
| the conditions described in      |                                  |
| clause 3.6.1                     |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: In EN-DC operation, the  |                                  |
| parameters, timers and           |                                  |
| scheduling requests referred to  |                                  |
| in clause 3.6.1 are for the      |                                  |
| secondary cell group. The DRX    |                                  |
| cycle is the DRX cycle of the    |                                  |
| secondary cell group.            |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

Table 9.10.3.5-3: Time period for SFN acuisition for interfrequency
CSI-RS based measurements with gaps (FR1)

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Condition ^NOTE1,2^              | T ~CSI-RS\_SFN\_inter~           |
+==================================+==================================+
| No DRX                           | Max(200ms, 5 × Max(MGRP, SMTC    |
|                                  | period)) × CSSF~inter~           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle ≤ 320ms                | Max(200ms, Ceil(5 × 1.5) ×       |
|                                  | Max(MGRP, SMTC period, DRX       |
|                                  | cycle)) × CSSF~inter~            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DRX cycle \> 320ms               | 5 × DRX cycle × CSSF~inter~      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NOTE 1: DRX or non DRX           |                                  |
| requirements apply according to  |                                  |
| the conditions described in      |                                  |
| clause 3.6.1                     |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NOTE 2: In EN-DC operation, the  |                                  |
| parameters, timers and           |                                  |
| scheduling requests referred to  |                                  |
| in clause 3.6.1 are for the      |                                  |
| secondary cell group. The DRX    |                                  |
| cycle is the DRX cycle of the    |                                  |
| secondary cell group.            |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

9.11 NR measurements with autonomous gaps
-----------------------------------------

### 9.11.1 Introduction

The requirements in this clause are applicable for CGI identification of
an intra frequency and inter frequency NR target cell.

The requirements in this clause are specified for CGI identification of
an NR target cell and are applicable for a UE:

\- in RRC\_CONNECTED state, and

\- configured with SA or NR-DC or NE-DC operation mode, or with EN-DC
operation mode for CGI identification requested by NR PSCell.

The overall CGI reporting delay is defined in clause 9.11.3.

### 9.11.2 CGI identification of an NR cell with autonomous gaps 

The UE shall identify and report the CGI of a known NR target cell when
requested by the network for the purpose of reportCGI. Only one cell is
provided to the UE with *cellForWhichToReportCGI* for identifying the
CGI.The UE may make autonomous gaps in both downlink reception and
uplink transmission for receiving MIB and SIB1 message according to
clause 5.5.3 of TS 38.331 \[2\]. Note that a UE is not required to use
autonomous gap if *useAutonomousGaps* is set to false. If autonomous
gaps are used for measurement with the purpose of reportCGI, regardless
of whether DRX is used or not, or whether SCell(s) are configured or
not, the UE shall be able to identify a new CGI of NR cell within:

T~identify\_CGI~ = (T~MIB~ + T ~SIB1~) ms

Where:

T~MIB~ is the time period used to acquire MIB message. T~MIB~ = 6 \*
T~SMTC~ ms for target cell carrier frequency on FR1 and T~MIB~ = 25 \*
T~SMTC~ ms for target cell carrier frequency on FR2.

T~SIB1~ is the time period used to acquire SIB1 message. T~SIB1~ = 6 \*
T~RMSI-scheduling~ ms.

Where T~SMTC~ is the SMTC periodicity configured for the target cell
measurement, and T~RMSI-scheduling~ is

\- the maximum between the periodicity with which the SIB1 is actually
transmitted by the NR target cell and 20ms when SSB and RMSI CORESET
multiplexing pattern is 1

\- the maximum between the periodicity with which the SIB1 is actually
transmitted by the NR target cell and T~SMTC~ when SSB and RMSI CORESET
multiplexing pattern is 2 or 3.

The requirement for identifying the CGI of an NR cell within
T~identify\_CGI~ is applicable when no DRX is used as well as when any
of the DRX cycles specified in TS 38.331 \[2\] is used.

Within the time T~identify\_CGI~, over which the UE identifies the CGI
of an NR cell, the UE shall fulfil interruption requirements specified
in,

\- Clause 8.2.1.2.16 for NR serving cells and Clause 7.32.2.15 in
TS36.133 \[15\] for E-UTRA serving cells if the UE is configured with
EN-DC operation mode,

\- Clause 8.2.2.2.14 if the UE is configured with SA operation mode,

\- Clause 8.2.3.2.14 for NR serving cells and Clause 7.36.2.14 in
TS36.133 \[15\] for E-UTRA serving cells if the UE is configured with
NE-DC operation mode,

\- Clause 8.2.4.2.11 if the UE is configured with NR-DC operation mode.

In the requirement a cell is known if,

\- During the last 5 seconds for FR1 or 3 seconds for FR2 before the
reception of the report CGI command:

\- The UE has sent a valid L3-RSRP measurement report with SSB index for
the target cell and

\- During MIB decoding at least reported SSBs remains detectable
according to the cell identification conditions specified in clauses 9.2
or 9.3 of TS 38.133, and

\- During SIB1 decoding the SSB used for MIB decoding remains detectable
according to the cell identification conditions specified in clauses 9.2
or 9.3 of TS 38.133, and

\- During MIB decoding, the SSB for MIB decoding remains detectable with
SNR ≥-3dB

\- During SIB1 decoding, the PDSCH for SIB1 decoding remains detectable
with SNR ≥-3dB

### 9.11.3 CGI reporting delay

The CGI reporting delay is defined as the time between a command that
will trigger a CGI report and the point when the UE starts to transmit
the measurement report over the air interface. This requirement assumes
that the measurement report is not delayed by other RRC signalling on
the DCCH. This measurement reporting delay excludes a delay uncertainty
of 2 x TTI~DCCH~ resulting when inserting the measurement report to the
TTI of the uplink DCCH. This measurement reporting delay excludes any
delay caused by lack of UL resources for UE to send the measurement
report.

The CGI reporting delay shall be less than T~identify\_CGI~ defined in
clause 9.11.2 plus RRC procedure delay defined in clause 12 in
TS 38.331 \[2\], and additional 20ms margin if target cell is on FR2.

10 Measurement Performance requirements
=======================================

10.1 NR measurements
--------------------

### 10.1.1 Introduction

The requirements in clause 10.1 apply as follows:

\- intra-frequency requirements apply for PCell measurements in SA,
NR-DC, or NE-DC operaion mode,

\- intra-frequency requirements apply for PSCell measurements in NR-DC
or EN-DC operaion mode,

\- intra-frequency requirements apply for SCell measurements in SA
operation mode with NR CA or any MR-DC operaion mode with NR CA,

\- inter-frequency requirements apply for non-serving cell measurements
on NR carrier frequencies.

\- inter-frequency requirements apply for measurements from one cell on
a frequency compared to the measurement from another cell on a different
frequency.

In the requirements of clause 10.1, the exceptions for side conditions
apply as follows:

\- for the UE capable of CA but not configured with any SCell, the
applicable exceptions for side conditions are specified in Annex B,
clause B.3.2.1 for UE supporting CA in FR1, and clause B.3.2.3 for UE
supporting CA in FR2, respectively;

\- for the UE capable of CA and configured with at least one SCell, the
applicable exceptions for side conditions are specified in Annex B,
clause B.3.2.2 for UE configured with CA in FR1, and clause B.3.2.4 for
UE supporting CA in FR2 respectively;

\- for the UE capable of SUL but not configured with SUL, the applicable
exceptions for side conditions are specified in Annex B, clause B.3.4.1
for UE supporting SUL in FR1;

\- for the UE capable of SUL and configured with at least one SUL, the
applicable exceptions for side conditions are specified in Annex B,
clause B.3.4.2 for UE configured with SUL in FR1.

### 10.1.2 Intra-frequency RSRP accuracy requirements for FR1

#### 10.1.2.1 Intra-frequency SS-RSRP accuracy requirements

##### 10.1.2.1.1 Absolute SS-RSRP Accuracy

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
SS-RSRP in this clause apply to a cell on the same frequency as that of
the serving cell in FR1. The accuracy requirements in this clause are
also applicable when *highSpeedMeasFlag-r16* is configured.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.2.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for intra-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.2 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

Table 10.1.2.1.1-1: SS-RSRP Intra frequency absolute accuracy in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+
| N     | Ex    | SSB   | Io    |       |       |       |     |
| ormal | treme | Ê     | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |
| cond  | cond  | s/Iot | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |
| ition | ition |       | range |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |     |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |     |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |     |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |     |
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |     |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| ±4.5  | ±9    | ≥-6   | N     | -     | -     | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| ±8    | ±11   | ≥-6   | N     | N/A   | N/A   | -70   | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_SD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | L\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_B, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_C, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_F, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_G, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 2: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+

##### 10.1.2.1.2 Relative SS-RSRP Accuracy

The relative accuracy of SS-RSRP is defined as the SS-RSRP measured from
one cell compared to the SS-RSRP measured from another cell on the same
frequency, or between any two SS-RSRP levels measured on the same cell
in FR1. The accuracy requirements in this clause are also applicable
when *highSpeedMeasFlag-r16* is configured.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.2.1.2-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for intra-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.2 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

Table 10.1.2.1.2-1: SS-RSRP Intra frequency relative accuracy in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| N     | Ex    | SSB   | Io    |       |       |       |       |
| ormal | treme | Ê     | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
| cond  | cond  | s/Iot | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |       |
| ition | ition | ^Not  | range |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |       |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |       |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |       |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | e\ 4^ |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |       |
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±2    | ±3    | ≥-3   | N     | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±3    | ±3    | ≥-6   | Note  | Note  | Note  | N/A   | Note  |
|       |       |       | 3     | 3     | 3     |       | 3     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| para  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| meter |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| pair  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cells |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| which |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| app   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lies. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ghest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| acc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ment. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

#### 10.1.2.2 Void

#### 10.1.2.3 Intra-frequency CSI-RSRP accuracy requirements

##### 10.1.2.3.1 Absolute CSI-RSRP Accuracy

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
CSI-RSRP in this clause apply to a cell where the CSI-RS resources to be
measured have the same center frequency as the CSI-RS resources
indicated for measurement in the serving cell in FR1.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.2.3.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for intra-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.2 for a corresponding Band for each associated SSB.

\- Conditions for intra-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.12 for a corresponding Band for each relevant CSI-RS to be
measured.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS is 48 PRBs and the density is 3. The
performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS is equal to or better than
the accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.2.3.1-1.- The timing offset
between the reference measurement timing and the target CSI-RS in one
layer is no larger than CP.

Note: The reference measurement timing for one layer for intra-frequency
measurement is serving cell timing.

Table 10.1.2.3.1-1: CSI-RSRP Intra frequency absolute accuracy in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+=====+
| N     | Ex    | C     | Io    |       |       |       |     |     |
| ormal | treme | SI-RS | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |     |
| cond  | cond  | Ê     | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |     |
| ition | ition | s/Iot | range |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | S     | W~Cha | W~Cha |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | CS~CS | nnel~ | nnel~ |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | I-RS~ |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       |       | S     | S     | S     |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | CS~CS | CS~CS | CS~CS |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | I-RS~ | I-RS~ | I-RS~ |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  | = 60  |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   | kHz   |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| ±4.5  | ±9    | ≥-6   | N     | -121  | -118  | -115  | N/A | -70 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 | 114.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | -114  | N/A | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -70 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 | 113.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | -113  | N/A | -70 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 | 112.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | -112  | N/A | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 | 111.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| ±8    | ±11   | ≥-6   | N     | N/A   | N/A   | N/A   | -70 | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_SD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | L\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_B, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_C, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_F, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_G, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 2: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+

##### 10.1.2.3.2 Relative CSI-RSRP Accuracy

The relative accuracy of CSI-RSRP is defined as the CSI-RSRP measured
from one cell compared to the CSI-RSRP measured from another cell on the
same center frequency, or between any two CSI-RSRP levels measured on
the same cell in FR1.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.2.3.2-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

> \- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for
> reference sensitivity are fulfilled.
>
> \- Conditions for intra-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
> to Annex B.2.2 for a corresponding Band for each associated SSB.

\- Conditions for intra-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.12 for a corresponding Band for each relevant CSI-RS to be
measured.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS is 48 PRBs and the density is 3. The
performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS is equal to or better than
the accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.2.3.2-1. - The timing offset
between the reference measurement timing and the target CSI-RS in one
layer is no larger than CP.

Note: The reference measurement timing for one layer for intra-frequency
measurement is serving cell timing.

Table 10.1.2.3.2-1: CSI-RSRP Intra frequency relative accuracy in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+=======+
| N     | Ex    | C     | Io    |       |       |       |     |       |
| ormal | treme | SI-RS | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |       |
| cond  | cond  | Ê     | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |       |
| ition | ition | s/Iot | range |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | e\ 4^ |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |     |       |
|       |       |       |       | S     | W~Cha | W~Cha |     |       |
|       |       |       |       | CS~CS | nnel~ | nnel~ |     |       |
|       |       |       |       | I-RS~ |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       |       | S     | S     | S     |     |       |
|       |       |       |       | CS~CS | CS~CS | CS~CS |     |       |
|       |       |       |       | I-RS~ | I-RS~ | I-RS~ |     |       |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  | = 60  |     |       |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   | kHz   |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
| ±2    | ±3    | ≥-3   | N     | -121  | -118  | -115  | N/A | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 | 114.5 |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | -114  | N/A | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 | 113.5 |     |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | -113  | N/A | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 | 112.5 |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | -112  | N/A | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 | 111.5 |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
| ±3    | ±3    | ≥-6   | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  | N/A | Note  |
|       |       |       | 3     | 3     | 3     | 3     |     | 3     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| para  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| meter |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| C     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| C     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| pair  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| cells |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| which |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| app   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| lies. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| hi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ghest |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| acc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| uracy |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ment. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 4: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+

### 10.1.2B Intra-frequency RSRP accuracy requirements for FR1 for CA/DC Idle Mode Measurements

#### 10.1.2B.1 Intra-frequency SS-RSRP accuracy requirements

The requirements in this clause are applicable for a UE:

\- in state RRC\_IDLE or RRC INACTIVE

\- that is synchronised to the cell that is measured.

The requirements are for absolute accuracy of SS-RSRP.

##### 10.1.2B.1.1 Absolute SS-RSRP Accuracy

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
SS-RSRP in this clause apply to the serving cell in FR1.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.2B.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

> \- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for
> reference sensitivity are fulfilled.
>
> \- Conditions for intra-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
> to Annex B.1.2 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

Table 10.1.2B.1.1-1: SS-RSRP Intra frequency absolute accuracy in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| **    | **Co  |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| Accur | nditi |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| acy** | ons** |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+
| **N   | **Ex  | **SSB | **Io  |       |       |       |     |
| ormal | treme | Ês/   | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |
| c     | c     | Iot** | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |
| ondit | ondit |       | ra    |       |       |       |     |
| ion** | ion** |       | nge** |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | **NR  | **Mi  | **Ma  |       |     |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |     |
|       |       |       | ating | Io**  | Io**  |       |     |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | ^     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | Note\ |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |  2^** |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| *     | *     | *     |       | **dBm | **dB  | **dB  |     |
| *dB** | *dB** | *dB** |       | /     | m/BW~ | m/BW~ |     |
|       |       |       |       | SCS~S | Chann | Chann |     |
|       |       |       |       | SB~** | el~** | el~** |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       | **SCS | **SCS |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | kHz** | kHz** |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| ±6    | ±10.5 | ≥-4   | N     | -     | -     | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| ±9.5  | ±12.5 | ≥-4   | N     | N/A   | N/A   | -70   | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_SD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | L\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_B, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_C, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_F, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_G, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 2: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+

### 10.1.3 Intra-frequency RSRP accuracy requirements for FR2

#### 10.1.3.1 Intra-frequency SS-RSRP accuracy requirements

##### 10.1.3.1.1 Absolute SS-RSRP Accuracy

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
SS-RSRP in this clause apply to a cell on the same frequency as that of
the serving cell in FR2.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.3.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for intra-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.2 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the percentile
EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4 of
TS 38.101-2 \[19\].

Table 10.1.3.1.1-1: SS-RSRP Intra frequency absolute accuracy in FR2

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| Accuracy | Co       |          |          |          |          |   |
|          | nditions |          |          |          |          |   |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+===+
| Normal   | Extreme  | SSB      | Io       |          |          |   |
| c        | c        | Ês/Iot   | ^        |          |          |   |
| ondition | ondition |          | Note\ 2^ |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | range    |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          |          | Minimum  | Maximum  |          |   |
|          |          |          | Io       | Io       |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| dB       | dB       | dB       | dBm /    | dBm/BW~  | dBm/BW~  |   |
|          |          |          | SCS~SSB~ | Channel~ | Channel~ |   |
|          |          |          | ^        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | Note\ 1^ |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          |          | SCS~SSB~ | SCS~SSB~ |          |   |
|          |          |          | = 120kHz | = 240kHz |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| ±6       | ±9       | ≥-6      | Same     | N/A      | -70      |   |
|          |          |          | value as |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | SSB\_RP  |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | in Table |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | B.2.2-2, |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | a        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | ccording |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | to UE    |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | Power    |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | class,   |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | o        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | perating |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | band and |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | angle of |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | arrival  |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| ±8       | ±11      |          | N/A      | -70      | -50      |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| Note 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Values   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| based on |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Refsens  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and EIS  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pherical |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| coverage |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| as       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| in       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| clauses  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 7.3.2    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 7.3.4 of |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| TS       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 38.101-2 |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| \[19\].  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| side     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| c        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ondition |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| selected |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| d        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| epending |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| on angle |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| of       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| arrival. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Note 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Io       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pecified |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| at the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| R        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| eference |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| point,   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| assumed  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to have  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| constant |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| EPRE     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| across   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ba       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ndwidth. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Note 3:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| In the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| test     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| cases,   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the SSB  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| related  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pa       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| rameters |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| may need |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to be    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| adjusted |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ensure   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| at UE    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| baseband |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| is above |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| value    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| in this  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| table.   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+

##### 10.1.3.1.2 Relative SS-RSRP Accuracy

The relative accuracy of SS-RSRP is defined as the SS-RSRP measured from
one cell compared to the SS-RSRP measured from another cell on the same
frequency, or between any two SS-RSRP levels measured on the same cell
in FR2.

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for intra-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.2 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the percentile
EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4 of TS 38.101-2
\[19\].

Table 10.1.3.1.2-1: SS-RSRP Intra frequency relative accuracy in FR2

+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Accuracy  | C         |           |           |           |   |
|           | onditions |           |           |           |   |
+===========+===========+===========+===========+===========+===+
| Normal    | Extreme   | SSB       | Io        |           |   |
| condition | condition | Ês/Iot    | ^Note\ 2^ |           |   |
|           |           |           | range     |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | Minimum   | Maximum   |   |
|           |           |           | Io        | Io        |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| dB        | dB        | dB        | dBm /     | dBm/BW    |   |
|           |           |           | SCS~SSB~  | ~Channel~ |   |
|           |           |           | ^Note\ 1^ |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | SCS~SSB~  | SCS~SSB~  |   |
|           |           |           | = 120kHz  | = 240kHz  |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±6        | ±9        | ≥-6       | Same      | -50       |   |
|           |           |           | value as  |           |   |
|           |           |           | SSB\_RP   |           |   |
|           |           |           | in Table  |           |   |
|           |           |           | B.2.2-2,  |           |   |
|           |           |           | according |           |   |
|           |           |           | to UE     |           |   |
|           |           |           | Power     |           |   |
|           |           |           | class,    |           |   |
|           |           |           | operating |           |   |
|           |           |           | band and  |           |   |
|           |           |           | angle of  |           |   |
|           |           |           | arrival   |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Note 1:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Values    |           |           |           |           |   |
| based on  |           |           |           |           |   |
| Refsens   |           |           |           |           |   |
| and EIS   |           |           |           |           |   |
| spherical |           |           |           |           |   |
| coverage  |           |           |           |           |   |
| as        |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in        |           |           |           |           |   |
| clauses   |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.2 and |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.4 of  |           |           |           |           |   |
| TS        |           |           |           |           |   |
| 38.101-2  |           |           |           |           |   |
| \[19\].   |           |           |           |           |   |
| A         |           |           |           |           |   |
| pplicable |           |           |           |           |   |
| side      |           |           |           |           |   |
| condition |           |           |           |           |   |
| selected  |           |           |           |           |   |
| depending |           |           |           |           |   |
| on angle  |           |           |           |           |   |
| of        |           |           |           |           |   |
| arrival.  |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 2:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Io        |           |           |           |           |   |
| specified |           |           |           |           |   |
| at the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Reference |           |           |           |           |   |
| point,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| assumed   |           |           |           |           |   |
| to have   |           |           |           |           |   |
| constant  |           |           |           |           |   |
| EPRE      |           |           |           |           |   |
| across    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| b         |           |           |           |           |   |
| andwidth. |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 3:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| In the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| test      |           |           |           |           |   |
| cases,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the SSB   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| related   |           |           |           |           |   |
| p         |           |           |           |           |   |
| arameters |           |           |           |           |   |
| may need  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to be     |           |           |           |           |   |
| adjusted  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to ensure |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot at |           |           |           |           |   |
| UE        |           |           |           |           |   |
| baseband  |           |           |           |           |   |
| is above  |           |           |           |           |   |
| the value |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in this   |           |           |           |           |   |
| table.    |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 4:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| The       |           |           |           |           |   |
| parameter |           |           |           |           |   |
| SSB       |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot is |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| minimum   |           |           |           |           |   |
| SSB       |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot of |           |           |           |           |   |
| the pair  |           |           |           |           |   |
| of cells  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to which  |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| re        |           |           |           |           |   |
| quirement |           |           |           |           |   |
| applies.  |           |           |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+

#### 10.1.3.2 Void

#### 10.1.3.3 Intra-frequency CSI-RSRP accuracy requirements

##### 10.1.3.3.1 Absolute CSI-RSRP Accuracy

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
CSI-RSRP in this clause apply to a cell where the CSI-RS resources to be
measured have the same center frequency as the CSI-RS resources
indicated for measurement in the serving cell in FR2.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.3.3.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

> \- Conditions for intra-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
> to Annex B.2.2 for a corresponding Band for each associated SSB(s).

\- Conditions for intra-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.12 for a corresponding Band for each relevant CSI-RS to be
measured.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS is 48 PRBs and the density is 3. The
performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS is equal to or better than
the accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.3.3.1-1.

\- The timing offset between the reference measurement timing and the
target CSI-RS in one layer is no larger than CP.

Note: The reference measurement timing for one layer for intra-frequency
measurement is serving cell timing.

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the percentile
EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4 of
TS 38.101-2 \[19\].

Table 10.1.3.3.1-1: CSI-RSRP Intra frequency absolute accuracy in FR2

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| Accuracy | Co       |          |          |          |          |   |
|          | nditions |          |          |          |          |   |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+===+
| Normal   | Extreme  | CSI-RS   | Io       |          |          |   |
| c        | c        | Ês/Iot   | ^        |          |          |   |
| ondition | ondition |          | Note\ 2^ |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | range    |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          |          | Minimum  | Maximum  |          |   |
|          |          |          | Io       | Io       |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| dB       | dB       | dB       | dBm /    | dBm/BW~  | dBm/BW~  |   |
|          |          |          | SCS      | Channel~ | Channel~ |   |
|          |          |          | ~CSI-RS~ |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | ^        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | Note\ 1^ |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          |          | SCS      | SCS      |          |   |
|          |          |          | ~CSI-RS~ | ~CSI-RS~ |          |   |
|          |          |          | = 60kHz  | = 120kHz |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| ±6       | ±9       | ≥-6      | Same     | N/A      | -70      |   |
|          |          |          | value as |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | CS       |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | I-RS\_RP |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | in Table |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | B        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | .2.12-2, |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | a        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | ccording |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | to UE    |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | Power    |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | class,   |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | o        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | perating |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | band and |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | angle of |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | arrival  |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| ±8       | ±11      |          | N/A      | -70      | -50      |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| Note 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Values   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| based on |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Refsens  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and EIS  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pherical |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| coverage |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| as       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| in       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| clauses  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 7.3.2    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 7.3.4 of |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| TS       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 38.101-2 |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| \[19\].  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| side     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| c        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ondition |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| selected |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| d        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| epending |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| on angle |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| of       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| arrival. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Note 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Io       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pecified |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| at the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| R        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| eference |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| point,   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| assumed  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to have  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| constant |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| EPRE     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| across   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ba       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ndwidth. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Note 3:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| In the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| test     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| cases,   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| CSI-RS   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| related  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pa       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| rameters |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| may need |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to be    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| adjusted |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ensure   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| at UE    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| baseband |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| is above |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| value    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| in this  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| table.   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+

##### 10.1.3.3.2 Relative CSI-RSRP Accuracy

The relative accuracy of CSI-RSRP is defined as the CSI-RSRP measured
from one cell compared to the CSI-RSRP measured from another cell on the
same center frequency, or between any two CSI-RSRP levels measured on
the same cell in FR2.

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

> \- Conditions for intra-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
> to Annex B.2.2 for a corresponding Band for each associated SSB(s).

\- Conditions for intra-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.12 for a corresponding Band for each CSI-RS to be measured.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS is 48 PRBs and the density is 3. The
performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS is equal to or better than
the accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.3.3.2-1.

\- The timing offset between the reference measurement timing and the
target CSI-RS in one layer is no larger than CP.

Note: The reference measurement timing for one layer for intra-frequency
measurement is serving cell timing.

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the percentile
EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4 of TS 38.101-2
\[19\].

Table 10.1.3.3.2-1: CSI-RSRP Intra frequency relative accuracy in FR2

+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Accuracy  | C         |           |           |           |   |
|           | onditions |           |           |           |   |
+===========+===========+===========+===========+===========+===+
| Normal    | Extreme   | CSI-RS    | Io        |           |   |
| condition | condition | Ês/Iot    | ^Note\ 2^ |           |   |
|           |           |           | range     |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | Minimum   | Maximum   |   |
|           |           |           | Io        | Io        |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| dB        | dB        | dB        | dBm / SCS | dBm/BW    |   |
|           |           |           | ~CSI-RS~  | ~Channel~ |   |
|           |           |           | ^Note\ 1^ |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | SCS       | SCS       |   |
|           |           |           | ~CSI-RS~  | ~CSI-RS~  |   |
|           |           |           | = 60kHz   | = 120kHz  |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±6        | ±9        | ≥-6       | Same      | -50       |   |
|           |           |           | value as  |           |   |
|           |           |           | C         |           |   |
|           |           |           | SI-RS\_RP |           |   |
|           |           |           | in Table  |           |   |
|           |           |           | B.2.12-2, |           |   |
|           |           |           | according |           |   |
|           |           |           | to UE     |           |   |
|           |           |           | Power     |           |   |
|           |           |           | class,    |           |   |
|           |           |           | operating |           |   |
|           |           |           | band and  |           |   |
|           |           |           | angle of  |           |   |
|           |           |           | arrival   |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Note 1:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Values    |           |           |           |           |   |
| based on  |           |           |           |           |   |
| Refsens   |           |           |           |           |   |
| and EIS   |           |           |           |           |   |
| spherical |           |           |           |           |   |
| coverage  |           |           |           |           |   |
| as        |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in        |           |           |           |           |   |
| clauses   |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.2 and |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.4 of  |           |           |           |           |   |
| TS        |           |           |           |           |   |
| 38.101-2  |           |           |           |           |   |
| \[19\].   |           |           |           |           |   |
| A         |           |           |           |           |   |
| pplicable |           |           |           |           |   |
| side      |           |           |           |           |   |
| condition |           |           |           |           |   |
| selected  |           |           |           |           |   |
| depending |           |           |           |           |   |
| on angle  |           |           |           |           |   |
| of        |           |           |           |           |   |
| arrival.  |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 2:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Io        |           |           |           |           |   |
| specified |           |           |           |           |   |
| at the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Reference |           |           |           |           |   |
| point,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| assumed   |           |           |           |           |   |
| to have   |           |           |           |           |   |
| constant  |           |           |           |           |   |
| EPRE      |           |           |           |           |   |
| across    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| b         |           |           |           |           |   |
| andwidth. |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 3:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| In the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| test      |           |           |           |           |   |
| cases,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| CSI-RS    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| related   |           |           |           |           |   |
| p         |           |           |           |           |   |
| arameters |           |           |           |           |   |
| may need  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to be     |           |           |           |           |   |
| adjusted  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to ensure |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot at |           |           |           |           |   |
| UE        |           |           |           |           |   |
| baseband  |           |           |           |           |   |
| is above  |           |           |           |           |   |
| the value |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in this   |           |           |           |           |   |
| table.    |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 4:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| The       |           |           |           |           |   |
| parameter |           |           |           |           |   |
| CSI-RS    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot is |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| minimum   |           |           |           |           |   |
| CSI-RS    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot of |           |           |           |           |   |
| the pair  |           |           |           |           |   |
| of cells  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to which  |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| re        |           |           |           |           |   |
| quirement |           |           |           |           |   |
| applies.  |           |           |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+

### 10.1.3B Intra-frequency RSRP accuracy requirements for FR2 for CA/DC Idle Mode Measurements

#### 10.1.3B.1 Intra-frequency SS-RSRP accuracy requirements

The requirements in this clause are applicable for a UE:

\- in state RRC\_IDLE or RRC INACTIVE

\- that is synchronised to the cell that is measured.

The requirements are for absolute accuracy of SS-RSRP.

#### 10.1.3B.1.1 Absolute SS-RSRP Accuracy

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
SS-RSRP in this clause apply to the serving cell in FR2.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.3B.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for intra-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.1.2 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the percentile
EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4 of
TS 38.101-2 \[19\].

Table 10.1.3B.1.1-1: SS-RSRP Intra frequency absolute accuracy in FR2

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| **Ac     | **Cond   |          |          |          |          |   |
| curacy** | itions** |          |          |          |          |   |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+===+
| **Normal | *        | **SSB    | **Io     |          |          |   |
| con      | *Extreme | Ês/Iot** | ^        |          |          |   |
| dition** | con      |          | Note\ 2^ |          |          |   |
|          | dition** |          | range**  |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          |          | *        | *        |          |   |
|          |          |          | *Minimum | *Maximum |          |   |
|          |          |          | Io**     | Io**     |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| **dB**   | **dB**   | **dB**   | **dBm /  | **d      | **d      |   |
|          |          |          | SCS~SSB~ | Bm/BW~Ch | Bm/BW~Ch |   |
|          |          |          | ^No      | annel~** | annel~** |   |
|          |          |          | te\ 1^** |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          |          | **       | **       |          |   |
|          |          |          | SCS~SSB~ | SCS~SSB~ |          |   |
|          |          |          | =        | =        |          |   |
|          |          |          | 120kHz** | 240kHz** |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| ±7.5     | ±10.5    | ≥-4      | Same     | N/A      | -70      |   |
|          |          |          | value as |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | SSB\_RP  |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | in Table |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | B.2.2-2, |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | a        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | ccording |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | to UE    |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | Power    |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | class,   |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | o        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | perating |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | band and |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | angle of |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | arrival  |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| ±9.5     | ±12.5    |          | N/A      | -70      | -50      |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| Note 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Values   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| based on |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Refsens  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and EIS  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pherical |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| coverage |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| as       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| in       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| clauses  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 7.3.2    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 7.3.4 of |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| TS       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 38.101-2 |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| \[19\].  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| side     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| c        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ondition |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| selected |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| d        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| epending |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| on angle |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| of       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| arrival. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Note 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Io       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pecified |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| at the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| R        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| eference |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| point    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| assumed  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to have  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| constant |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| EPRE     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| across   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ba       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ndwidth. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Note 3:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| In the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| test     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| cases,   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the SSB  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| related  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pa       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| rameters |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| may need |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to be    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| adjusted |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ensure   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| at UE    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| baseband |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| is above |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| value    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| in this  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| table.   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+

### 10.1.4 Inter-frequency RSRP accuracy requirements for FR1

#### 10.1.4.1 Inter-frequency SS-RSRP accuracy requirements

##### 10.1.4.1.1 Absolute Accuracy of SS-RSRP in FR1

The requirements for absolute accuracy of SS-RSRP in this clause apply
to a cell on a frequency in FR1 that has different carrier frequency
from the serving cell.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.4.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.3 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

Table 10.1.4.1.1-1: SS-RSRP Inter frequency Absolute accuracy in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+
| N     | Ex    | SSB   | Io    |       |       |       |     |
| ormal | treme | Ê     | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |
| cond  | cond  | s/Iot | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |
| ition | ition | ^Not  | range |       |       |       |     |
|       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |     |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |     |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |     |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | e\ 3^ |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |     |
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |     |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| ±4.5  | ±9    | ≥-6   | N     | -     | -     | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| ±8    | ±11   | ≥-6   | N     | N/A   | N/A   | -70   | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_SD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | L\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_B, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_C, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_F, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_G, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 3: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+

##### 10.1.4.1.2 Relative Accuracy of SS-RSRP in FR1

The relative accuracy of SS-RSRP in inter frequency case is defined as
the RSRP measured from one cell on a frequency in FR1compared to the
RSRP measured from another cell on a different frequency in FR1.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.4.1.2-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] Clause 7.3 for
reference sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.3 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

\- \|SSB\_RP1~dBm~ - SSB\_RP2~dBm~\| ≤ 27 dB

\- \| Channel 1\_Io ‑Channel 2\_Io \| ≤ 20 dB

Table 10.1.4.1.2-1: SS-RSRP Inter frequency relative accuracy in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+
| N     | Ex    | SSB   | Io    |       |       |       |     |
| ormal | treme | Ê     | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |
| cond  | cond  | s/Iot | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |
| ition | ition | ^Not  | range |       |       |       |     |
|       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |     |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |     |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |     |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | e\ 3^ |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |     |
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |     |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| ±4.5  | ±6    | ≥-6   | N     | -     | -     | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| para  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| meter |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| pair  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| cells |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| which |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| app   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| lies. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 3: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+

#### 10.1.4.2 Void

#### 10.1.4.3 Inter-frequency CSI-RSRP accuracy requirements

##### 10.1.4.3.1 Absolute Accuracy of CSI-RSRP in FR1

The requirements for absolute accuracy of CSI-RSRP in this clause apply
to a cell where the CSI-RS resources to be measured have the different
center frequency as the CSI-RS resources indicated for measurement in
the serving cell in FR1.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.4.3.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.3 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.13 for a corresponding Band for each relevant CSI-RS to be
measured.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS is 48 PRBs and the density is 3. The
performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS is equal to or better than
the accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.4.3.1-1.

\- The timing offset between the reference measurement timing and the
target CSI-RS in one layer is no larger than CP.

Note: The reference measurement timing for one layer for inter-frequency
measurement is up to UE implementation and shall be based on the timing
of one of the target cells.

Table 10.1.4.3.1-1: CSI-RSRP Inter frequency Absolute accuracy in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+=====+
| N     | Ex    | C     | Io    |       |       |       |     |     |
| ormal | treme | SI-RS | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |     |
| cond  | cond  | Ê     | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |     |
| ition | ition | s/Iot | range |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | S     | W~Cha | W~Cha |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | CS~CS | nnel~ | nnel~ |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | I-RS~ |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       |       | S     | S     | S     |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | CS~CS | CS~CS | CS~CS |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | I-RS~ | I-RS~ | I-RS~ |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  | = 60  |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   | kHz   |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | -115  | N/A | -70 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 | 114.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | -114  | N/A | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| ±4.5  | ±9    | ≥-6   | N     | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -70 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 | 113.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | -113  | N/A | -70 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 | 112.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | -112  | N/A | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 | 111.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| ±8    | ±11   | ≥-6   | N     | N/A   | N/A   | N/A   | -70 | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_SD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | L\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_B, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_C, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_F, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_G, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 2: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+

##### 10.1.4.3.2 Relative Accuracy of CS-RSRP in FR1

The relative accuracy of CSI-RSRP in inter frequency case is defined as
the CSI-RSRP measured from one cell on a frequency in FR1compared to the
CSI-RSRP measured from another cell on a different frequency in FR1.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.4.3.2-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] Clause 7.3 for
reference sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.3 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.13 for a corresponding Band for each relevant CSI-RS to be
measured.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS is 48 PRBs and the density is 3. The
performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS is equal to or better than
the accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.4.3.2-1.

\- The timing offset between the reference measurement timing and the
target CSI-RS in one layer is no larger than CP.

Note: The reference measurement timing for one layer for inter-frequency
measurement is up to UE implementation and shall be based on the timing
of one of the target cells.

\- \|CSI\_RP1~dBm~ - CSI\_RP2~dBm~\| ≤ 27 dB

\- \| Channel 1\_Io ‑Channel 2\_Io \| ≤ 20 dB

Table 10.1.4.3.2-1: CSI-RSRP Inter frequency relative accuracy in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+=====+
| N     | Ex    | C     | Io    |       |       |       |     |     |
| ormal | treme | SI-RS | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |     |
| cond  | cond  | Ê     | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |     |
| ition | ition | s/Iot | range |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | e\ 4^ |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | S     | W~Cha | W~Cha |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | CS~CS | nnel~ | nnel~ |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | I-RS~ |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       |       | S     | S     | S     |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | CS~CS | CS~CS | CS~CS |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | I-RS~ | I-RS~ | I-RS~ |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  | = 60  |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   | kHz   |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | -115  | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 | 114.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | -114  | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| ±4.5  | ±6    | ≥-6   | N     | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 | 113.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | -113  | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 | 112.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | -112  | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 | 111.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| para  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| meter |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| C     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| C     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| pair  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| C     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| reso  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| urces |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| which |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| app   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| lies. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 4: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+

### 10.1.4B Inter-frequency RSRP accuracy requirements for FR1 for CA/DC Idle Mode Measurements

#### 10.1.4B.1 Inter-frequency SS-RSRP accuracy requirements

The requirements in this clause are applicable for a UE:

\- in state RRC\_IDLE or RRC INACTIVE

\- that is synchronised to the cell that is measured.

The requirements are for absolute accuracy of SS-RSRP.

##### 10.1.4B.1.1 Absolute Accuracy of SS-RSRP in FR1

The requirements for absolute accuracy of SS-RSRP in this clause apply
to a cell on a frequency in FR1 that has different carrier frequency
from the serving cell.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.4B.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.1.3 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

Table 10.1.4B.1.1-1: SS-RSRP Inter frequency Absolute accuracy in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| **    | **Co  |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| Accur | nditi |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| acy** | ons** |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+
| **N   | **Ex  | **SSB | **Io  |       |       |       |     |
| ormal | treme | Ê     | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |
| c     | c     | s/Iot | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |
| ondit | ondit | ^     | ra    |       |       |       |     |
| ion** | ion** | Note\ | nge** |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |  2^** |       |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | **NR  | **Mi  | **Ma  |       |     |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |     |
|       |       |       | ating | Io**  | Io**  |       |     |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | ^     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | Note\ |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |  3^** |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| *     | *     | *     |       | **dBm | **dB  | **dB  |     |
| *dB** | *dB** | *dB** |       | /     | m/BW~ | m/BW~ |     |
|       |       |       |       | SCS~S | Chann | Chann |     |
|       |       |       |       | SB~** | el~** | el~** |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       | **SCS | **SCS |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | kHz** | kHz** |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| ±6    | ±10.5 | ≥-4   | N     | -     | -     | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| ±9.5  | ±12.5 | ≥-4   | N     | N/A   | N/A   | -70   | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_SD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | L\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_B, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_C, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_F, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_G, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 3: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+

### 10.1.5 Inter-frequency RSRP accuracy requirements for FR2

#### 10.1.5.1 Inter-frequency SS-RSRP accuracy requirements

##### 10.1.5.1.1 Absolute SS-RSRP Accuracy

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
SS-RSRP in this clause apply to a cell on a frequency in FR2 that is on
a different frequency than the serving cell.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.5.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.3 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the percentile
EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4 of TS 38.101-2
\[19\].

**Table 10.1.5.1.1-1: SS-RSRP Inter frequency absolute accuracy in FR2**

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| Accuracy | Co       |          |          |          |          |   |
|          | nditions |          |          |          |          |   |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+===+
| Normal   | Extreme  | SSB      | Io       |          |          |   |
| c        | c        | Ês/Iot   | ^        |          |          |   |
| ondition | ondition |          | Note\ 2^ |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | range    |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          |          | Minimum  | Maximum  |          |   |
|          |          |          | Io       | Io       |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| dB       | dB       | dB       | dBm /    | dBm/BW~  | dBm/BW~  |   |
|          |          |          | SCS~SSB~ | Channel~ | Channel~ |   |
|          |          |          | ^        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | Note\ 1^ |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          |          | SCS~SSB~ | SCS~SSB~ |          |   |
|          |          |          | = 120kHz | = 240kHz |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| ±6       | ±9       | ≥-4      | Same     | N/A      | -70      |   |
|          |          |          | value as |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | SSB\_RP  |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | in Table |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | B.2.3-2, |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | a        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | ccording |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | to UE    |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | Power    |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | class,   |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | o        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | perating |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | band and |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | angle of |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | arrival  |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| ±8       | ±11      |          | N/A      | -70      | -50      |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| Note 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Values   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| based on |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Refsens  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and EIS  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pherical |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| coverage |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| as       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| in       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| clauses  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 7.3.2    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 7.3.4 of |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| TS       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 38.101-2 |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|  \[19\]. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| side     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| c        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ondition |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| selected |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| d        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| epending |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| on angle |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| of       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| arrival. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Note 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Io       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pecified |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| at the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| R        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| eference |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| point,   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| assumed  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to have  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| constant |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| EPRE     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| across   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ba       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ndwidth. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Note 3:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| In the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| test     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| cases,   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the SSB  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| related  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pa       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| rameters |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| may need |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to be    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| adjusted |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ensure   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| at UE    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| baseband |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| is above |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| value    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| in this  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| table.   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+

##### 10.1.5.1.2 Relative SS-RSRP Accuracy

The relative accuracy of SS-RSRP is defined as the SS-RSRP measured from
one cell on a frequency in FR2 compared to the SS-RSRP measured from
another cell on another frequency in FR2.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.5.1.2-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in 38.101-2 \[19\] Clause 7.3 for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.3 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

\- \|SSB\_RP1~dBm~ - SSB\_RP2~dBm~\| ≤ 27dB

\- \| Channel 1\_Io ‑Channel 2\_Io \| ≤ 20 dB

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the percentile
EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4 of TS 38.101-2
\[19\].

Table 10.1.5.1.2-1: SS-RSRP Inter frequency relative accuracy in FR2

+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Accuracy  | C         |           |           |           |   |
|           | onditions |           |           |           |   |
+===========+===========+===========+===========+===========+===+
| Normal    | Extreme   | SSB       | Io        |           |   |
| condition | condition | Ês/Iot    | ^Note\ 2^ |           |   |
|           |           |           | range     |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | Minimum   | Maximum   |   |
|           |           |           | Io        | Io        |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| dB        | dB        | dB        | dBm /     | dBm/BW    |   |
|           |           |           | SCS~SSB~  | ~Channel~ |   |
|           |           |           | ^Note\ 1^ |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | SCS~SSB~  | SCS~SSB~  |   |
|           |           |           | = 120kHz  | = 240kHz  |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±6        | ±9        | ≥-4       | Same      | -50       |   |
|           |           |           | value as  |           |   |
|           |           |           | SSB\_RP   |           |   |
|           |           |           | in Table  |           |   |
|           |           |           | B.2.3-2,  |           |   |
|           |           |           | according |           |   |
|           |           |           | to UE     |           |   |
|           |           |           | Power     |           |   |
|           |           |           | class,    |           |   |
|           |           |           | operating |           |   |
|           |           |           | band and  |           |   |
|           |           |           | angle of  |           |   |
|           |           |           | arrival   |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Note 1:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Values    |           |           |           |           |   |
| based on  |           |           |           |           |   |
| Refsens   |           |           |           |           |   |
| and EIS   |           |           |           |           |   |
| spherical |           |           |           |           |   |
| coverage  |           |           |           |           |   |
| as        |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in        |           |           |           |           |   |
| clauses   |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.2 and |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.4 of  |           |           |           |           |   |
| TS        |           |           |           |           |   |
| 38.101-2  |           |           |           |           |   |
| \[19\].   |           |           |           |           |   |
| A         |           |           |           |           |   |
| pplicable |           |           |           |           |   |
| side      |           |           |           |           |   |
| condition |           |           |           |           |   |
| selected  |           |           |           |           |   |
| depending |           |           |           |           |   |
| on angle  |           |           |           |           |   |
| of        |           |           |           |           |   |
| arrival.  |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 2:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Io        |           |           |           |           |   |
| specified |           |           |           |           |   |
| at the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Reference |           |           |           |           |   |
| point,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| assumed   |           |           |           |           |   |
| to have   |           |           |           |           |   |
| constant  |           |           |           |           |   |
| EPRE      |           |           |           |           |   |
| across    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| b         |           |           |           |           |   |
| andwidth. |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 3:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| In the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| test      |           |           |           |           |   |
| cases,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the SSB   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| related   |           |           |           |           |   |
| p         |           |           |           |           |   |
| arameters |           |           |           |           |   |
| may need  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to be     |           |           |           |           |   |
| adjusted  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to ensure |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot at |           |           |           |           |   |
| UE        |           |           |           |           |   |
| baseband  |           |           |           |           |   |
| is above  |           |           |           |           |   |
| the value |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in this   |           |           |           |           |   |
| table.    |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 4:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| The       |           |           |           |           |   |
| parameter |           |           |           |           |   |
| SSB       |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot is |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| minimum   |           |           |           |           |   |
| SSB       |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot of |           |           |           |           |   |
| the pair  |           |           |           |           |   |
| of cells  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to which  |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| re        |           |           |           |           |   |
| quirement |           |           |           |           |   |
| applies.  |           |           |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+

#### 10.1.5.2 Void

#### 10.1.5.3 Inter-frequency CSI-RSRP accuracy requirements

##### 10.1.5.3.1 Absolute CSI-RSRP Accuracy

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
CSI-RSRP in this clause apply to a cell on a frequency in FR2 where the
CSI-RS resources to be measured have the different center frequency as
the CSI-RS resources indicated for measurement in the serving cell.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.5.3.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.3 for a corresponding Band for each relevant associated
SSB.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.13 for a corresponding Band for each relevant CSI-RS to be
measured.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS is 48 PRBs and the density is 3. The
performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS is equal to or better than
the accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.5.3.1-1.

\- The timing offset between the reference measurement timing and the
target CSI-RS in one layer is no larger than CP.

Note: The reference measurement timing for one layer for inter-frequency
measurement is up to UE implementation and shall be based on the timing
of one of the target cells.

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the percentile
EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4 of TS 38.101-2
\[19\].

**Table 10.1.5.3.1-1: CSI-RSRP Inter frequency absolute accuracy in
FR2**

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| Accuracy | Co       |          |          |          |          |   |
|          | nditions |          |          |          |          |   |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+===+
| Normal   | Extreme  | CSI-RS   | Io       |          |          |   |
| c        | c        | Ês/Iot   | ^        |          |          |   |
| ondition | ondition |          | Note\ 2^ |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | range    |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          |          | Minimum  | Maximum  |          |   |
|          |          |          | Io       | Io       |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| dB       | dB       | dB       | dBm /    | dBm/BW~  | dBm/BW~  |   |
|          |          |          | SCS      | Channel~ | Channel~ |   |
|          |          |          | ~CSI-RS~ |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | ^        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | Note\ 1^ |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          |          | SCS      | SCS      |          |   |
|          |          |          | ~CSI-RS~ | ~CSI-RS~ |          |   |
|          |          |          | = 60kHz  | = 120kHz |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| ±6       | ±9       | ≥-4      | Same     | N/A      | -70      |   |
|          |          |          | value as |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | CSI\_RP  |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | in Table |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | B        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | .2.13-2, |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | a        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | ccording |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | to UE    |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | Power    |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | class,   |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | o        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | perating |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | band and |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | angle of |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | arrival  |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| ±8       | ±11      |          | N/A      | -70      | -50      |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| Note 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Values   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| based on |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Refsens  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and EIS  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pherical |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| coverage |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| as       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| in       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| clauses  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 7.3.2    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 7.3.4 of |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| TS       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 38.101-2 |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|  \[19\]. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| side     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| c        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ondition |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| selected |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| d        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| epending |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| on angle |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| of       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| arrival. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Note 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Io       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pecified |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| at the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| R        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| eference |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| point,   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| assumed  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to have  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| constant |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| EPRE     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| across   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ba       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ndwidth. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Note 3:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| In the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| test     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| cases,   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| CSI-RS   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| related  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pa       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| rameters |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| may need |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to be    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| adjusted |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ensure   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| at UE    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| baseband |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| is above |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| value    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| in this  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| table.   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+

##### 10.1.5.3.2 Relative CSI-RSRP Accuracy

The relative accuracy of CSI-RSRP in inter frequency case is defined as
the CSI-RSRP measured from one cell on a frequency in FR2 compared to
the CSI-RSRP measured from another cell on another frequency in FR2.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.5.3.2-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in 38.101-2 \[19\] Clause 7.3 for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.3 for a corresponding Band for each relevant associated
SSB.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.13 for a corresponding Band for each relevant CSI-RS to be
measured.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS is 48 PRBs and the density is 3. The
performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS is equal to or better than
the accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.5.3.2-1.

\- The timing offset between the reference measurement timing and the
target CSI-RS in one layer is no larger than CP.

Note: The reference measurement timing for one layer for inter-frequency
measurement is up to UE implementation and shall be based on the timing
of one of the target cells.

\- \|CSI\_RP1~dBm~ - CSI\_RP2~dBm~\| ≤ 27dB

\- \| Channel 1\_Io ‑Channel 2\_Io \| ≤ 20 dB

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the percentile
EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4 of TS 38.101-2
\[19\].

Table 10.1.5.3.2-1: CSI-RSRP Inter frequency relative accuracy in FR2

+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Accuracy  | C         |           |           |           |   |
|           | onditions |           |           |           |   |
+===========+===========+===========+===========+===========+===+
| Normal    | Extreme   | CSI-RS    | Io        |           |   |
| condition | condition | Ês/Iot    | ^Note\ 2^ |           |   |
|           |           |           | range     |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | Minimum   | Maximum   |   |
|           |           |           | Io        | Io        |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| dB        | dB        | dB        | dBm /     | dBm/BW    |   |
|           |           |           | SC        | ~Channel~ |   |
|           |           |           | S~CSI-RS~ |           |   |
|           |           |           | ^Note\ 1^ |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | SC        | SC        |   |
|           |           |           | S~CSI-RS~ | S~CSI-RS~ |   |
|           |           |           | = 60kHz   | = 120kHz  |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±6        | ±9        | ≥-4       | Same      | -50       |   |
|           |           |           | value as  |           |   |
|           |           |           | CSI\_RP   |           |   |
|           |           |           | in Table  |           |   |
|           |           |           | B.2.13-2, |           |   |
|           |           |           | according |           |   |
|           |           |           | to UE     |           |   |
|           |           |           | Power     |           |   |
|           |           |           | class,    |           |   |
|           |           |           | operating |           |   |
|           |           |           | band and  |           |   |
|           |           |           | angle of  |           |   |
|           |           |           | arrival   |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Note 1:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Values    |           |           |           |           |   |
| based on  |           |           |           |           |   |
| Refsens   |           |           |           |           |   |
| and EIS   |           |           |           |           |   |
| spherical |           |           |           |           |   |
| coverage  |           |           |           |           |   |
| as        |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in        |           |           |           |           |   |
| clauses   |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.2 and |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.4 of  |           |           |           |           |   |
| TS        |           |           |           |           |   |
| 38.101-2  |           |           |           |           |   |
| \[19\].   |           |           |           |           |   |
| A         |           |           |           |           |   |
| pplicable |           |           |           |           |   |
| side      |           |           |           |           |   |
| condition |           |           |           |           |   |
| selected  |           |           |           |           |   |
| depending |           |           |           |           |   |
| on angle  |           |           |           |           |   |
| of        |           |           |           |           |   |
| arrival.  |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 2:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Io        |           |           |           |           |   |
| specified |           |           |           |           |   |
| at the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Reference |           |           |           |           |   |
| point,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| assumed   |           |           |           |           |   |
| to have   |           |           |           |           |   |
| constant  |           |           |           |           |   |
| EPRE      |           |           |           |           |   |
| across    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| b         |           |           |           |           |   |
| andwidth. |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 3:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| In the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| test      |           |           |           |           |   |
| cases,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| CSI-RS    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| related   |           |           |           |           |   |
| p         |           |           |           |           |   |
| arameters |           |           |           |           |   |
| may need  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to be     |           |           |           |           |   |
| adjusted  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to ensure |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot at |           |           |           |           |   |
| UE        |           |           |           |           |   |
| baseband  |           |           |           |           |   |
| is above  |           |           |           |           |   |
| the value |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in this   |           |           |           |           |   |
| table.    |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 4:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| The       |           |           |           |           |   |
| parameter |           |           |           |           |   |
| CSI-RS    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot is |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| minimum   |           |           |           |           |   |
| CSI-RS    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot of |           |           |           |           |   |
| the pair  |           |           |           |           |   |
| of cells  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to which  |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| re        |           |           |           |           |   |
| quirement |           |           |           |           |   |
| applies.  |           |           |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+

### 10.1.5B Inter-frequency RSRP accuracy requirements for FR2 for CA/DC Idle Mode Measurements

10.1.5B.1 Inter-frequency SS-RSRP accuracy requirements

The requirements in this clause are applicable for a UE:

\- in state RRC\_IDLE or RRC INACTIVE

\- that is synchronised to the cell that is measured.

The requirements are for absolute accuracy of SS-RSRP.

10.1.5B.1.1 Absolute SS-RSRP Accuracy

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
SS-RSRP in this clause apply to a cell on a frequency in FR2 that is on
a different frequency than the serving cell.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.5B.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

> \- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for
> reference sensitivity are fulfilled.
>
> \- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
> to Annex B.1.3 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.
>
> \- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the
> percentile EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4
> of TS 38.101-2 \[19\].

**Table 10.1.5B.1.1-1: SS-RSRP Inter frequency absolute accuracy in
FR2**

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| **Ac     | **Cond   |          |          |          |          |   |
| curacy** | itions** |          |          |          |          |   |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+===+
| **Normal | *        | **SSB    | **Io     |          |          |   |
| con      | *Extreme | Ês/Iot** | ^        |          |          |   |
| dition** | con      |          | Note\ 2^ |          |          |   |
|          | dition** |          | range**  |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          |          | *        | *        |          |   |
|          |          |          | *Minimum | *Maximum |          |   |
|          |          |          | Io**     | Io**     |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| **dB**   | **dB**   | **dB**   | **dBm /  | **d      | **d      |   |
|          |          |          | SCS~SSB~ | Bm/BW~Ch | Bm/BW~Ch |   |
|          |          |          | ^No      | annel~** | annel~** |   |
|          |          |          | te\ 1^** |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          |          | **       | **       |          |   |
|          |          |          | SCS~SSB~ | SCS~SSB~ |          |   |
|          |          |          | =        | =        |          |   |
|          |          |          | 120kHz** | 240kHz** |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| ±7.5     | ±10.5    | ≥-4      | Same     | N/A      | -70      |   |
|          |          |          | value as |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | SSB\_RP  |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | in Table |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | B.2.3-2, |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | a        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | ccording |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | to UE    |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | Power    |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | class,   |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | o        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | perating |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | band and |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | angle of |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | arrival  |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| ±9.5     | ±12.5    |          | N/A      | -70      | -50      |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| Note 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Values   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| based on |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Refsens  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and EIS  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pherical |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| coverage |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| as       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| in       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| clauses  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 7.3.2    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 7.3.4 of |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| TS       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 38.101-2 |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|  \[19\]. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| side     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| c        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ondition |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| selected |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| d        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| epending |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| on angle |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| of       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| arrival. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Note 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Io       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pecified |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| at the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| R        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| eference |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| point,   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| assumed  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to have  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| constant |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| EPRE     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| across   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ba       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ndwidth. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Note 3:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| In the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| test     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| cases,   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the SSB  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| related  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pa       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| rameters |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| may need |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to be    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| adjusted |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ensure   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| at UE    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| baseband |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| is above |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| value    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| in this  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| table.   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+

### 10.1.6 RSRP Measurement Report Mapping

he reporting range of SS-RSRP and CSI-RSRP for L3 reporting is defined
from -156 dBm to -31 dBm with 1 dB resolution. The reporting range of
SS-RSRP and CSI-RSRP for L1 reporting is defined from -140 to -44 dBm
with 1 dB resolution.

The mapping of measured quantity is defined in Table 10.1.6.1-1. The
range in the signalling may be larger than the guaranteed accuracy
range.

The reporting range of differential SS-RSRP and CSI-RSRP for L1
reporting and L3 reporting is defined from 0 dB to -30 dB with 2 dB
resolution.

The mapping of measured quantity is defined in Table 10.1.6.1-2. The
range in the signalling may be larger than the guaranteed accuracy
range.

Table 10.1.6.1-1: SS-RSRP and CSI-RSRP measurement report mapping

  Reported value                                                                                                                                                             Measured quantity value (L3 SS-RSRP and CSI-RSRP)   Measured quantity value (L1 SS-RSRP and CSI-RSRP)   Unit
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------- ------
  RSRP\_0                                                                                                                                                                    RSRP\<-156                                          Not valid                                           dBm
  RSRP\_1                                                                                                                                                                    -156≤RSRP\<-155                                     Not valid                                           dBm
  RSRP\_2                                                                                                                                                                    -155≤RSRP\<-154                                     Not valid                                           dBm
  RSRP\_3                                                                                                                                                                    -154≤RSRP\<-153                                     Not valid                                           dBm
  RSRP\_4                                                                                                                                                                    -153≤RSRP\<-152                                     Not valid                                           dBm
  RSRP\_5                                                                                                                                                                    -152≤RSRP\<-151                                     Not valid                                           dBm
  RSRP\_6                                                                                                                                                                    -151≤RSRP\<-150                                     Not valid                                           dBm
  RSRP\_7                                                                                                                                                                    -150≤RSRP\<-149                                     Not valid                                           dBm
  RSRP\_8                                                                                                                                                                    -149≤RSRP\<-148                                     Not valid                                           dBm
  RSRP\_9                                                                                                                                                                    -148≤RSRP\<-147                                     Not valid                                           dBm
  RSRP\_10                                                                                                                                                                   -147≤RSRP\<-146                                     Not valid                                           dBm
  RSRP\_11                                                                                                                                                                   -146≤RSRP\<-145                                     Not valid                                           dBm
  RSRP\_12                                                                                                                                                                   -145≤RSRP\<-144                                     Not valid                                           dBm
  RSRP\_13                                                                                                                                                                   -144≤RSRP\<-143                                     Not valid                                           dBm
  RSRP\_14                                                                                                                                                                   -143≤RSRP\<-142                                     Not valid                                           dBm
  RSRP\_15                                                                                                                                                                   -142≤RSRP\<-141                                     Not valid                                           dBm
  RSRP\_16                                                                                                                                                                   -141≤RSRP\<-140                                     RSRP\<-140                                          dBm
  RSRP\_17                                                                                                                                                                   -140≤RSRP\<-139                                     -140≤RSRP\<-139                                     dBm
  RSRP\_18                                                                                                                                                                   -139≤RSRP\<-138                                     -139≤ RSRP\<-138                                    dBm
  ...                                                                                                                                                                        ...                                                                                                     ...
  RSRP\_111                                                                                                                                                                  -46≤RSRP\<-45                                       -46≤ RSRP\<-45                                      dBm
  RSRP\_112                                                                                                                                                                  -45≤RSRP\<-44                                       -45≤ RSRP\<-44                                      dBm
  RSRP\_113                                                                                                                                                                  -44≤RSRP\<-43                                       -44≤ RSRP                                           dBm
  RSRP\_114                                                                                                                                                                  -43≤RSRP\<-42                                       Not valid                                           dBm
  RSRP\_115                                                                                                                                                                  -42≤RSRP\<-41                                       Not valid                                           dBm
  RSRP\_116                                                                                                                                                                  -41≤RSRP\<-40                                       Not valid                                           dBm
  RSRP\_117                                                                                                                                                                  -40≤RSRP\<-39                                       Not valid                                           dBm
  RSRP\_118                                                                                                                                                                  -39≤RSRP\<-38                                       Not valid                                           dBm
  RSRP\_119                                                                                                                                                                  -38≤RSRP\<-37                                       Not valid                                           dBm
  RSRP\_120                                                                                                                                                                  -37≤RSRP\<-36                                       Not valid                                           dBm
  RSRP\_121                                                                                                                                                                  -36≤RSRP\<-35                                       Not valid                                           dBm
  RSRP\_122                                                                                                                                                                  -35≤RSRP\<-34                                       Not valid                                           dBm
  RSRP\_123                                                                                                                                                                  -34≤ RSRP\<-33                                      Not valid                                           dBm
  RSRP\_124                                                                                                                                                                  -33≤RSRP\<-32                                       Not valid                                           dBm
  RSRP\_125                                                                                                                                                                  -32≤RSRP\<-31                                       Not valid                                           dBm
  RSRP\_126                                                                                                                                                                  -31≤RSRP                                            Not valid                                           dBm
  RSRP\_127 (Note)                                                                                                                                                           Infinity                                            Infinity                                            dBm
  Note: The value of RSRP\_127 is applicable for RSRP threshold configured by the network as defined in TS 38.331 \[2\], but not for the purpose of measurement reporting.                                                                                                           

Table 10.1.6.1-2: Differential SS-RSRP and CSI-RSRP measurement (for L1
reporting and L3 reporting) report mapping

  Reported value   Measured quantity value (difference in measured RSRP from strongest RSRP)   Unit
  ---------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------
  DIFFRSRP\_0      0≥ΔRSRP\>-2                                                                 dB
  DIFFRSRP\_1      -2≥ΔRSRP\>-4                                                                dB
  DIFFRSRP\_2      -4≥ΔRSRP\>-6                                                                dB
  DIFFRSRP\_3      -6≥ΔRSRP\>-8                                                                dB
  DIFFRSRP\_4      -8≥ΔRSRP\>-10                                                               dB
  DIFFRSRP\_5      -10≥ΔRSRP\>-12                                                              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_6      -12≥ΔRSRP\>-14                                                              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_7      -14≥ΔRSRP\>-16                                                              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_8      -16≥ΔRSRP\>-18                                                              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_9      -18≥ΔRSRP\>-20                                                              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_10     -20≥ΔRSRP\>-22                                                              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_11     -22≥ΔRSRP\>-24                                                              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_12     -24≥ΔRSRP\>-26                                                              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_13     -26≥ΔRSRP\>-28                                                              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_14     -28≥ΔRSRP\>-30                                                              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_15     -30≥ΔRSRP                                                                   dB

### 10.1.7 Intra-frequency RSRQ accuracy requirements for FR1

#### 10.1.7.1 Intra-frequency SS-RSRQ accuracy requirements in FR1

##### 10.1.7.1.1 Absolute SS-RSRQ Accuracy in FR1

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
SS-RSRQ in this clause apply to a cell on the same frequency as that of
the serving cell in FR1. The accuracy requirements in this clause are
also applicable when *highSpeedMeasFlag-r16* is configured.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.7.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for intra-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.2 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

Table 10.1.7.1.1-1: SS-RSRQ Intra frequency absolute accuracy in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| N     | Ex    | SSB   | Io    |       |       |       |       |
| ormal | treme | Ê     | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
| cond  | cond  | s/Iot | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |       |
| ition | ition |       | range |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |       |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |       |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |       |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | e\ 3^ |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |       |
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±2.5  | ±4    | ≥-3   | N     | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±3.5  | ±4    | ≥-6   | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  |
|       |       |       | 2     | 2     | 2     | 2     | 2     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ghest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| acc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ment. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

#### 10.1.7.2 Intra-frequency CSI-RSRQ accuracy requirements

##### 10.1.7.2.1 Absolute CSI-RSRQ Accuracy

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
CSI-RSRQ in this clause apply to the intra-frequency measurement defined
in 9.10.2.1 in FR1.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.7.2.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for intra-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.2 for a corresponding Band for associated SSB.

\- Conditions for intra-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.12 for a corresponding Band for each relevant CSI-RS.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS is 48 PRBs and the density is 3.

The performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS is equal to or better
than the accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.7.2.1-1.

\- The timing offset between the reference measurement timing and the
target CSI-RS in one layer is no larger than CP.

Note: The reference measurement timing for one layer for intra-frequency
measurement is serving cell timing.

**Table 10.1.7.2.1-1: CSI-RSRQ Intra frequency absolute accuracy in
FR1**

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| N     | Ex    | C     | Io    |       |       |       |       |       |
| ormal | treme | SI-RS | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |       |
| cond  | cond  | Ê     | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |       |       |
| ition | ition | s/Iot | range |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | e\ 3^ |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | S     | W~Cha | W~Cha |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | CS~CS | nnel~ | nnel~ |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | I-RS~ |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       | S     | S     | S     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | CS~CS | CS~CS | CS~CS |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | I-RS~ | I-RS~ | I-RS~ |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  | = 60  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   | kHz   |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | -115  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 | 114.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | -114  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±2.5  | ±4    | ≥-3   | N     | -     | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 | 113.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | -113  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 | 112.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | -112  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 | 111.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±3.5  | ±4    | ≥-6   | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  |
|       |       |       | 2     | 2     | 2     | 2     | 2     | 2     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ghest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| acc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ment. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

### 10.1.7B Intra-frequency RSRQ accuracy requirements for FR1 for CA/DC Idle Mode Measurements

#### 10.1.7B.1 Intra-frequency SS-RSRQ accuracy requirements in FR1

The requirements in this clause are applicable for a UE:

\- in state RRC\_IDLE or RRC INACTIVE

\- that is synchronised to the cell that is measured.

The requirements are for absolute accuracy of SS-RSRQ.

##### 10.1.7B.1.1 Absolute SS-RSRQ Accuracy in FR1

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
SS-RSRQ in this clause apply to the serving cell in FR1.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.7B.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for intra-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.1.2 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

Table 10.1.7B.1.1-1: SS-RSRQ Intra frequency absolute accuracy in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| N     | Ex    | SSB   | Io    |       |       |       |       |
| ormal | treme | Ê     | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
| cond  | cond  | s/Iot | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |       |
| ition | ition |       | range |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |       |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |       |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |       |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | e\ 3^ |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |       |
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±4    | ±5.5  | ≥-3   | N     | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±5    | ±5.5  | ≥-4   | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  |
|       |       |       | 2     | 2     | 2     | 2     | 2     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ghest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| acc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ment. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

### 10.1.8 Intra-frequency RSRQ accuracy requirements for FR2

#### 10.1.8.1 Intra-frequency SS-RSRQ accuracy requirements in FR2

##### 10.1.8.1.1 Absolute SS-RSRQ Accuracy in FR2

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
SS-RSRQ in this clause apply to a cell on the same frequency as that of
the serving cell in FR2.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.8.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

> \- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for
> reference sensitivity are fulfilled.
>
> \- Conditions for intra-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
> to Annex B.2.2 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.
>
> \- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the
> percentile EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4
> of TS 38.101-2 \[19\].

Table 10.1.8.1.1-1: SS-RSRQ Intra frequency absolute accuracy in FR2

+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Accuracy  | C         |           |           |           |   |
|           | onditions |           |           |           |   |
+===========+===========+===========+===========+===========+===+
| Normal    | Extreme   | SSB       | Io        |           |   |
| condition | condition | Ês/Iot    | ^Note\ 2^ |           |   |
|           |           |           | range     |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | Minimum   | Maximum   |   |
|           |           |           | Io        | Io        |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| dB        | dB        | dB        | dBm /     | dBm/BW    |   |
|           |           |           | SCS~SSB~  | ~Channel~ |   |
|           |           |           | ^Note\ 1^ |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | SCS~SSB~  | SCS~SSB~  |   |
|           |           |           | = 120kHz  | = 240kHz  |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±2.5      | ±4        | ≥-3       | Same      | -50       |   |
|           |           |           | value as  |           |   |
|           |           |           | SSB\_RP   |           |   |
|           |           |           | in Table  |           |   |
|           |           |           | B.2.2-2,  |           |   |
|           |           |           | according |           |   |
|           |           |           | to UE     |           |   |
|           |           |           | Power     |           |   |
|           |           |           | class,    |           |   |
|           |           |           | operating |           |   |
|           |           |           | band and  |           |   |
|           |           |           | angle of  |           |   |
|           |           |           | arrival   |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±3.5      | ±4        | ≥-6       |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Note 1:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Values    |           |           |           |           |   |
| based on  |           |           |           |           |   |
| Refsens   |           |           |           |           |   |
| and EIS   |           |           |           |           |   |
| spherical |           |           |           |           |   |
| coverage  |           |           |           |           |   |
| as        |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in        |           |           |           |           |   |
| clauses   |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.2 and |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.4 of  |           |           |           |           |   |
| TS        |           |           |           |           |   |
| 38.101-2  |           |           |           |           |   |
| \[19\].   |           |           |           |           |   |
| A         |           |           |           |           |   |
| pplicable |           |           |           |           |   |
| side      |           |           |           |           |   |
| condition |           |           |           |           |   |
| selected  |           |           |           |           |   |
| depending |           |           |           |           |   |
| on angle  |           |           |           |           |   |
| of        |           |           |           |           |   |
| arrival.  |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 2:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Io        |           |           |           |           |   |
| specified |           |           |           |           |   |
| at the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Reference |           |           |           |           |   |
| point,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| assumed   |           |           |           |           |   |
| to have   |           |           |           |           |   |
| constant  |           |           |           |           |   |
| EPRE      |           |           |           |           |   |
| across    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| b         |           |           |           |           |   |
| andwidth. |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 3:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| In the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| test      |           |           |           |           |   |
| cases,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the SSB   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| related   |           |           |           |           |   |
| p         |           |           |           |           |   |
| arameters |           |           |           |           |   |
| may need  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to be     |           |           |           |           |   |
| adjusted  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to ensure |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot at |           |           |           |           |   |
| UE        |           |           |           |           |   |
| baseband  |           |           |           |           |   |
| is above  |           |           |           |           |   |
| the value |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in this   |           |           |           |           |   |
| table.    |           |           |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+

#### 10.1.8.2 Intra-frequency CSI-RSRQ accuracy requirements

##### 10.1.8.2.1 Absolute CSI-RSRQ Accuracy

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
CSI-RSRQ in this clause apply to the intra-frequency measurement defined
in 9.10.2.1 in FR2.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.8.2.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for intra-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.2 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

\- Conditions for intra-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.12 for a corresponding Band for each relevant CSI-RS.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS is 48 PRBs and the density is 3.

The performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS is equal to or better
than the accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.8.2.1-1.

\- The timing offset between the reference measurement timing and the
target CSI-RS in one layer is no larger than CP.

Note: The reference measurement timing for one layer for intra-frequency
measurement is serving cell timing.

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the percentile
EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4 of
TS 38.101-2 \[19\].

Table 10.1.8.2.1-1: CSI-RSRQ Intra frequency absolute accuracy in FR2

+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Accuracy  | C         |           |           |           |   |
|           | onditions |           |           |           |   |
+===========+===========+===========+===========+===========+===+
| Normal    | Extreme   | CSI-RS    | Io        |           |   |
| condition | condition | Ês/Iot    | ^Note\ 2^ |           |   |
|           |           |           | range     |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | Minimum   | Maximum   |   |
|           |           |           | Io        | Io        |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| dB        | dB        | dB        | dBm /     | dBm/BW    |   |
|           |           |           | SC        | ~Channel~ |   |
|           |           |           | S~CSI-RS~ |           |   |
|           |           |           | ^Note\ 1^ |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | SC        | SC        |   |
|           |           |           | S~CSI-RS~ | S~CSI-RS~ |   |
|           |           |           | = 60kHz   | = 120kHz  |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±2.5      | ±4        | ≥-3       | Same      | -50       |   |
|           |           |           | value as  |           |   |
|           |           |           | CSI\_RP   |           |   |
|           |           |           | in Table  |           |   |
|           |           |           | B.2.12-2, |           |   |
|           |           |           | according |           |   |
|           |           |           | to UE     |           |   |
|           |           |           | Power     |           |   |
|           |           |           | class,    |           |   |
|           |           |           | operating |           |   |
|           |           |           | band and  |           |   |
|           |           |           | angle of  |           |   |
|           |           |           | arrival   |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±3.5      | ±4        | ≥-6       |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Note 1:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Values    |           |           |           |           |   |
| based on  |           |           |           |           |   |
| Refsens   |           |           |           |           |   |
| and EIS   |           |           |           |           |   |
| spherical |           |           |           |           |   |
| coverage  |           |           |           |           |   |
| as        |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in        |           |           |           |           |   |
| clauses   |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.2 and |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.4 of  |           |           |           |           |   |
| TS        |           |           |           |           |   |
| 38.101-2  |           |           |           |           |   |
| \[19\].   |           |           |           |           |   |
| A         |           |           |           |           |   |
| pplicable |           |           |           |           |   |
| side      |           |           |           |           |   |
| condition |           |           |           |           |   |
| selected  |           |           |           |           |   |
| depending |           |           |           |           |   |
| on angle  |           |           |           |           |   |
| of        |           |           |           |           |   |
| arrival.  |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 2:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Io        |           |           |           |           |   |
| specified |           |           |           |           |   |
| at the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Reference |           |           |           |           |   |
| point,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| assumed   |           |           |           |           |   |
| to have   |           |           |           |           |   |
| constant  |           |           |           |           |   |
| EPRE      |           |           |           |           |   |
| across    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| b         |           |           |           |           |   |
| andwidth. |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 3:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| In the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| test      |           |           |           |           |   |
| cases,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| CSI-RS    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| related   |           |           |           |           |   |
| p         |           |           |           |           |   |
| arameters |           |           |           |           |   |
| may need  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to be     |           |           |           |           |   |
| adjusted  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to ensure |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot at |           |           |           |           |   |
| UE        |           |           |           |           |   |
| baseband  |           |           |           |           |   |
| is above  |           |           |           |           |   |
| the value |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in this   |           |           |           |           |   |
| table.    |           |           |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+

### 10.1.8B Intra-frequency RSRQ accuracy requirements for FR2 for CA/DC Idle Mode Measurements

#### 10.1.8B.1 Intra-frequency SS-RSRQ accuracy requirements in FR2

The requirements in this clause are applicable for a UE:

\- in state RRC\_IDLE or RRC INACTIVE

\- that is synchronised to the cell that is measured.

The requirements are for absolute accuracy of SS-RSRQ.

##### 10.1.8B.1.1 Absolute SS-RSRQ Accuracy in FR2

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
SS-RSRQ in this clause apply to the serving cell in FR2.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.8B.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for intra-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.1.2 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the percentile
EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4 of TS 38.101-2
\[19\].

Table 10.1.8B.1.1-1: SS-RSRQ Intra frequency absolute accuracy in FR2

+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Accuracy  | C         |           |           |           |   |
|           | onditions |           |           |           |   |
+===========+===========+===========+===========+===========+===+
| Normal    | Extreme   | SSB       | Io        |           |   |
| condition | condition | Ês/Iot    | ^Note\ 2^ |           |   |
|           |           |           | range     |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | Minimum   | Maximum   |   |
|           |           |           | Io        | Io        |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| dB        | dB        | dB        | dBm /     | dBm/BW    |   |
|           |           |           | SCS~SSB~  | ~Channel~ |   |
|           |           |           | ^Note\ 1^ |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | SCS~SSB~  | SCS~SSB~  |   |
|           |           |           | = 120kHz  | = 240kHz  |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±4        | ±5.5      | ≥-3       | Same      | -50       |   |
|           |           |           | value as  |           |   |
|           |           |           | SSB\_RP   |           |   |
|           |           |           | in Table  |           |   |
|           |           |           | B.2.2-2,  |           |   |
|           |           |           | according |           |   |
|           |           |           | to UE     |           |   |
|           |           |           | Power     |           |   |
|           |           |           | class,    |           |   |
|           |           |           | operating |           |   |
|           |           |           | band and  |           |   |
|           |           |           | angle of  |           |   |
|           |           |           | arrival   |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±5        | ±5.5      | ≥-4       |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Note 1:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Values    |           |           |           |           |   |
| based on  |           |           |           |           |   |
| Refsens   |           |           |           |           |   |
| and EIS   |           |           |           |           |   |
| spherical |           |           |           |           |   |
| coverage  |           |           |           |           |   |
| as        |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in        |           |           |           |           |   |
| clauses   |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.2 and |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.4 of  |           |           |           |           |   |
| TS        |           |           |           |           |   |
| 38.101-2  |           |           |           |           |   |
| \[19\].   |           |           |           |           |   |
| A         |           |           |           |           |   |
| pplicable |           |           |           |           |   |
| side      |           |           |           |           |   |
| condition |           |           |           |           |   |
| selected  |           |           |           |           |   |
| depending |           |           |           |           |   |
| on angle  |           |           |           |           |   |
| of        |           |           |           |           |   |
| arrival.  |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 2:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Io        |           |           |           |           |   |
| specified |           |           |           |           |   |
| at the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Reference |           |           |           |           |   |
| point,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| assumed   |           |           |           |           |   |
| to have   |           |           |           |           |   |
| constant  |           |           |           |           |   |
| EPRE      |           |           |           |           |   |
| across    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| b         |           |           |           |           |   |
| andwidth. |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 3:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| In the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| test      |           |           |           |           |   |
| cases,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the SSB   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| related   |           |           |           |           |   |
| p         |           |           |           |           |   |
| arameters |           |           |           |           |   |
| may need  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to be     |           |           |           |           |   |
| adjusted  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to ensure |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot at |           |           |           |           |   |
| UE        |           |           |           |           |   |
| baseband  |           |           |           |           |   |
| is above  |           |           |           |           |   |
| the value |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in this   |           |           |           |           |   |
| table.    |           |           |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+

### 10.1.9 Inter-frequency RSRQ accuracy requirements for FR1

#### 10.1.9.1 Inter-frequency SS-RSRQ accuracy requirements in FR1

##### 10.1.9.1.1 Absolute Accuracy of SS-RSRQ in FR1

The requirements for absolute accuracy of SS-RSRQ in this clause apply
to a cell on a frequency in FR1 that has different carrier frequency
from the serving cell.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.9.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

> \- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for
> reference sensitivity are fulfilled.
>
> \- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
> to Annex B.2.3 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

Table 10.1.9.1.1-1: SS-RSRQ Inter frequency absolute accuracy in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| N     | Ex    | SSB   | Io    |       |       |       |       |
| ormal | treme | Ê     | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
| cond  | cond  | s/Iot | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |       |
| ition | ition |       | range |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |       |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |       |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |       |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | e\ 3^ |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |       |
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±2.5  | ±4    | ≥-3   | N     | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±3.5  | ±4    | ≥-6   | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  |
|       |       |       | 2     | 2     | 2     | 2     | 2     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ghest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| acc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ment. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

##### 10.1.9.1.2 Relative Accuracy of SS-RSRQ in FR1

The relative accuracy of SS-RSRQ in inter frequency case is defined as
the RSRQ measured from one cell on a frequency in FR1 compared to the
RSRP measured from another cell on a different frequency in FR1.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.9.1.2-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

> \- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for
> reference sensitivity are fulfilled.
>
> \- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
> to Annex B.2.3 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.
>
> \- \|SSB\_RP1~dBm~ - SSB\_RP2~dBm~\| ≤ 27 dB
>
> \- \| Channel 1\_Io ‑Channel 2\_Io \| ≤ 20 dB

Table 10.1.9.1.2-1: SS-RSRQ Inter frequency relative accuracy in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| N     | Ex    | SSB   | Io    |       |       |       |       |
| ormal | treme | Ê     | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
| cond  | cond  | s/Iot | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |       |
| ition | ition |       | range |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       | ^Not  | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |       |
|       |       | e\ 2^ | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |       |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |       |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | e\ 4^ |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |       |
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±3    | ±4    | ≥-3   | N     | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±4    | ±4    | ≥-6   | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  |
|       |       |       | 3     | 3     | 3     | 3     | 3     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| para  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| meter |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| pair  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cells |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| which |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| app   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lies. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ghest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| acc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ment. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

#### 10.1.9.2 Inter-frequency CSI-RSRQ accuracy requirements

##### 10.1.9.2.1 Absolute CSI-RSRQ Accuracy

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
CSI-RSRQ in this clause apply to the inter-frequency measurement defined
in 9.10.3.1 in FR1.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.9.2.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.3 for a corresponding Band for associated SSB.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.13 for a corresponding Band for each relevant CSI-RS.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS is 48 PRBs and the density is 3.

The performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS is equal to or better
than the accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.9.2.1-1.

\- The timing offset between the reference measurement timing and the
target CSI-RS in one layer is no larger than CP.

-   Note: The reference measurement timing for one layer for
    inter-frequency measurement is up to UE implementation and shall be
    based on the timing of one of the target cells.

Table 10.1.9.2.1-1: CSI-RSRQ Inter frequency absolute accuracy in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| N     | Ex    | C     | Io    |       |       |       |       |       |
| ormal | treme | SI-RS | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |       |
| cond  | cond  | Ê     | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |       |       |
| ition | ition | s/Iot | range |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | e\ 3^ |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | S     | W~Cha | W~Cha |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | CS~CS | nnel~ | nnel~ |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | I-RS~ |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       | S     | **S   | **S   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | CS~CS | CS~CS | CS~CS |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | I-RS~ | I-RS~ | I-RS~ |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  | = 60  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz** | kHz** |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | -115  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 | 114.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | -114  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±2.5  | ±4    | ≥-3   | N     | -     | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 | 113.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | -113  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 | 112.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | -112  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 | 111.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±3.5  | ±4    | ≥-6   | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  |
|       |       |       | 2     | 2     | 2     | 2     | 2     | 2     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ghest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| acc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ment. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

##### 10.1.9.2.2 Relative CSI-RSRQ Accuracy

The relative accuracy of CSI-RSRQ is defined as the CSI-RSRQ measured
from one cell compared to the CSI-RSRQ measured from another cell with
the same center frequency, or between any two CSI-RSRQ levels measured
on the same cell in FR1.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.9.2.2-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

> \- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for
> reference sensitivity are fulfilled.
>
> \- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
> to Annex B.2.3 for a corresponding Band for the associated SSB.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.13 for a corresponding Band for each relevant CSI-RS.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS is 48 PRBs and the density is 3.

The performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS is equal to or better
than the accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.9.2.2-1.

\- The timing offset between the reference measurement timing and the
target CSI-RS in one layer is no larger than CP.

Note: The reference measurement timing for one layer for inter-frequency
measurement is up to UE implementation and shall be based on the timing
of one of the target cells.

Table 10.1.9.2.2-1: CSI-RSRQ Inter frequency relative accuracy in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| N     | Ex    | C     | Io    |       |       |       |       |       |
| ormal | treme | SI-RS | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |       |
| cond  | cond  | Ê     | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |       |       |
| ition | ition | s/Iot | range |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       | ^Not  | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |       |       |
|       |       | e\ 2^ | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | e\ 4^ |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| *     | *     | *     |       | **dBm | **dB  | **dB  |       |       |
| *dB** | *dB** | *dB** |       | /     | m/BW~ | m/BW~ |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | Chann | Chann |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~CSI- | el~** | el~** |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | RS~** |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       | **S   | **S   | **S   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | CS~CS | CS~CS | CS~CS |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | I-RS~ | I-RS~ | I-RS~ |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  | = 60  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | kHz** | kHz** | kHz** |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | -115  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 | 114.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | -114  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±3    | ±4    | ≥-3   | N     | -     | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 | 113.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | -113  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 | 112.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | -112  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 | 111.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±4    | ±4    | ≥-6   | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  |
|       |       |       | 3     | 3     | 3     | 3     | 3     | 3     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| para  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| meter |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| C     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| C     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| pair  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cells |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| which |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| app   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lies. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ghest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| acc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ment. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

### 10.1.9B Inter-frequency RSRQ accuracy requirements for FR1 for CA/DC Idle Mode Measurements

#### 10.1.9B.1 Inter-frequency SS-RSRQ accuracy requirements in FR1

The requirements in this clause are applicable for a UE:

\- in state RRC\_IDLE or RRC INACTIVE

\- that is synchronised to the cell that is measured.

The requirements are for absolute accuracy of SS-RSRQ.

##### 10.1.9B.1.1 Absolute Accuracy of SS-RSRQ in FR1

The requirements for absolute accuracy of SS-RSRQ in this clause apply
to a cell on a frequency in FR1 that has different carrier frequency
from the serving cell.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.9B.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.1.3 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

Table 10.1.9B.1.1-1: SS-RSRQ Inter frequency absolute accuracy in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| N     | Ex    | SSB   | Io    |       |       |       |       |
| ormal | treme | Ê     | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
| cond  | cond  | s/Iot | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |       |
| ition | ition |       | range |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |       |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |       |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |       |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | e\ 3^ |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |       |
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±4    | ±5.5  | ≥-3   | N     | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±5    | ±5.5  | ≥-4   | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  |
|       |       |       | 2     | 2     | 2     | 2     | 2     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ghest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| acc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ment. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

### 10.1.10 Inter-frequency RSRQ accuracy requirements for FR2

10.1.10.1 Inter-frequency SS-RSRQ accuracy requirements in FR2

10.1.10.1.1 Absolute Accuracy of SS-RSRQ in FR2

The requirements for absolute accuracy of SS-RSRQ in this clause apply
to a cell on a frequency in FR2 that has different carrier frequency
from the serving cell.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.10.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

> \- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for
> reference sensitivity are fulfilled.
>
> \- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
> to Annex B.2.3 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.
>
> \- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the
> percentile EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4
> of TS 38.101-2 \[19\].

Table 10.1.10.1.1-1: SS-RSRQ Inter frequency absolute accuracy in FR2

+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Accuracy  | C         |           |           |           |   |
|           | onditions |           |           |           |   |
+===========+===========+===========+===========+===========+===+
| Normal    | Extreme   | SSB       | Io        |           |   |
| condition | condition | Ês/Iot    | ^Note\ 2^ |           |   |
|           |           |           | range     |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | Minimum   | Maximum   |   |
|           |           |           | Io        | Io        |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| dB        | dB        | dB        | dBm /     | dBm/BW    |   |
|           |           |           | SCS~SSB~  | ~Channel~ |   |
|           |           |           | ^Note\ 1^ |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | SCS~SSB~  | SCS~SSB~  |   |
|           |           |           | = 120kHz  | = 240kHz  |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±2.5      | ±4        | ≥-3       | Same      | -50       |   |
|           |           |           | value as  |           |   |
|           |           |           | SSB\_RP   |           |   |
|           |           |           | in Table  |           |   |
|           |           |           | B.2.2-2,  |           |   |
|           |           |           | according |           |   |
|           |           |           | to UE     |           |   |
|           |           |           | Power     |           |   |
|           |           |           | class,    |           |   |
|           |           |           | operating |           |   |
|           |           |           | band and  |           |   |
|           |           |           | angle of  |           |   |
|           |           |           | arrival   |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±3.5      | ±4        | ≥-4       |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Note 1:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Values    |           |           |           |           |   |
| based on  |           |           |           |           |   |
| Refsens   |           |           |           |           |   |
| and EIS   |           |           |           |           |   |
| spherical |           |           |           |           |   |
| coverage  |           |           |           |           |   |
| as        |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in        |           |           |           |           |   |
| clauses   |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.2 and |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.4 of  |           |           |           |           |   |
| TS        |           |           |           |           |   |
| 38.101-2  |           |           |           |           |   |
| \[19\].   |           |           |           |           |   |
| A         |           |           |           |           |   |
| pplicable |           |           |           |           |   |
| side      |           |           |           |           |   |
| condition |           |           |           |           |   |
| selected  |           |           |           |           |   |
| depending |           |           |           |           |   |
| on angle  |           |           |           |           |   |
| of        |           |           |           |           |   |
| arrival.  |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 2:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Io        |           |           |           |           |   |
| specified |           |           |           |           |   |
| at the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Reference |           |           |           |           |   |
| point,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| assumed   |           |           |           |           |   |
| to have   |           |           |           |           |   |
| constant  |           |           |           |           |   |
| EPRE      |           |           |           |           |   |
| across    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| b         |           |           |           |           |   |
| andwidth. |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 3:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| In the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| test      |           |           |           |           |   |
| cases,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the SSB   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| related   |           |           |           |           |   |
| p         |           |           |           |           |   |
| arameters |           |           |           |           |   |
| may need  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to be     |           |           |           |           |   |
| adjusted  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to ensure |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot at |           |           |           |           |   |
| UE        |           |           |           |           |   |
| baseband  |           |           |           |           |   |
| is above  |           |           |           |           |   |
| the value |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in this   |           |           |           |           |   |
| table.    |           |           |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+

10.1.10.1.2 Relative Accuracy of SS-RSRQ in FR2

The relative accuracy of SS-RSRQ in inter frequency case is defined as
the RSRQ measured from one cell on a frequency in FR2 compared to the
RSRP measured from another cell on a different frequency in FR2.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.10.1.2-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.3 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

\- \|SSB\_RP1~dBm~ - SSB\_RP2~dBm~\| ≤ 27 dB

\- \| Channel 1\_Io ‑Channel 2\_Io \| ≤ 20 dB

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the percentile
EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4 of TS 38.101-2
\[19\].

Table 10.1.10.1.2-1: SS-RSRQ Inter frequency relative accuracy in FR2

+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Accuracy  | C         |           |           |           |   |
|           | onditions |           |           |           |   |
+===========+===========+===========+===========+===========+===+
| Normal    | Extreme   | SSB       | Io        |           |   |
| condition | condition | Ês/Iot    | ^Note\ 2^ |           |   |
|           |           |           | range     |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | Minimum   | Maximum   |   |
|           |           |           | Io        | Io        |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| dB        | dB        | dB        | dBm /     | dBm/BW    |   |
|           |           |           | SCS~SSB~  | ~Channel~ |   |
|           |           |           | ^Note\ 1^ |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | SCS~SSB~  | SCS~SSB~  |   |
|           |           |           | = 120kHz  | = 240kHz  |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±3        | ±4        | ≥-3       | Same      | -50       |   |
|           |           |           | value as  |           |   |
|           |           |           | SSB\_RP   |           |   |
|           |           |           | in Table  |           |   |
|           |           |           | B.2.2-2,  |           |   |
|           |           |           | according |           |   |
|           |           |           | to UE     |           |   |
|           |           |           | Power     |           |   |
|           |           |           | class,    |           |   |
|           |           |           | operating |           |   |
|           |           |           | band and  |           |   |
|           |           |           | angle of  |           |   |
|           |           |           | arrival   |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±4        | ±4        | ≥-4       |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Note 1:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Values    |           |           |           |           |   |
| based on  |           |           |           |           |   |
| Refsens   |           |           |           |           |   |
| and EIS   |           |           |           |           |   |
| spherical |           |           |           |           |   |
| coverage  |           |           |           |           |   |
| as        |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in        |           |           |           |           |   |
| clauses   |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.2 and |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.4 of  |           |           |           |           |   |
| TS        |           |           |           |           |   |
| 38.101-2  |           |           |           |           |   |
| \[19\].   |           |           |           |           |   |
| A         |           |           |           |           |   |
| pplicable |           |           |           |           |   |
| side      |           |           |           |           |   |
| condition |           |           |           |           |   |
| selected  |           |           |           |           |   |
| depending |           |           |           |           |   |
| on angle  |           |           |           |           |   |
| of        |           |           |           |           |   |
| arrival.  |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 2:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Io        |           |           |           |           |   |
| specified |           |           |           |           |   |
| at the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Reference |           |           |           |           |   |
| point,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| assumed   |           |           |           |           |   |
| to have   |           |           |           |           |   |
| constant  |           |           |           |           |   |
| EPRE      |           |           |           |           |   |
| across    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| b         |           |           |           |           |   |
| andwidth. |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 3:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| The       |           |           |           |           |   |
| parameter |           |           |           |           |   |
| SSB       |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot is |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| minimum   |           |           |           |           |   |
| SSB       |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot of |           |           |           |           |   |
| the pair  |           |           |           |           |   |
| of cells  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to which  |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| re        |           |           |           |           |   |
| quirement |           |           |           |           |   |
| applies.  |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 4:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| In the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| test      |           |           |           |           |   |
| cases,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the SSB   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| related   |           |           |           |           |   |
| p         |           |           |           |           |   |
| arameters |           |           |           |           |   |
| may need  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to be     |           |           |           |           |   |
| adjusted  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to ensure |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot at |           |           |           |           |   |
| UE        |           |           |           |           |   |
| baseband  |           |           |           |           |   |
| is above  |           |           |           |           |   |
| the value |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in this   |           |           |           |           |   |
| table.    |           |           |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+

#### 10.1.10.2 Inter-frequency CSI-RSRQ accuracy requirements

##### 10.1.10.2.1 Absolute CSI-RSRQ Accuracy

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
CSI-RSRQ in this clause apply the inter-frequency measurement defined in
9.10.3.1 in FR2.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.10.2.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.3 for a corresponding Band for associated SSB.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.13 for a corresponding Band for each relevant CSI-RS.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS is 48 PRBs and the density is 3.

The performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS is equal to or better
than the accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.10.2.1-1.

\- The timing offset between the reference measurement timing and the
target CSI-RS in one layer is no larger than CP.

Note: The reference measurement timing for one layer for inter-frequency
measurement is up to UE implementation and shall be based on the timing
of one of the target cells.

Table 10.1.10.2.1-1: CSI-RSRQ Inter frequency absolute accuracy in FR2

+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Accuracy  | C         |           |           |           |   |
|           | onditions |           |           |           |   |
+===========+===========+===========+===========+===========+===+
| Normal    | Extreme   | CSI-RS    | Io        |           |   |
| condition | condition | Ês/Iot    | ^Note\ 2^ |           |   |
|           |           |           | range     |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | Minimum   | Maximum   |   |
|           |           |           | Io        | Io        |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| dB        | dB        | dB        | dBm /     | dBm/BW    |   |
|           |           |           | SC        | ~Channel~ |   |
|           |           |           | S~CSI-RS~ |           |   |
|           |           |           | ^Note\ 1^ |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | SC        | SC        |   |
|           |           |           | S~CSI-RS~ | S~CSI-RS~ |   |
|           |           |           | = 60kHz   | = 120kHz  |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±2.5      | ±4        | ≥-3       | Same      | -50       |   |
|           |           |           | value as  |           |   |
|           |           |           | CSI\_RP   |           |   |
|           |           |           | in Table  |           |   |
|           |           |           | B.2.13-2, |           |   |
|           |           |           | according |           |   |
|           |           |           | to UE     |           |   |
|           |           |           | Power     |           |   |
|           |           |           | class,    |           |   |
|           |           |           | operating |           |   |
|           |           |           | band and  |           |   |
|           |           |           | angle of  |           |   |
|           |           |           | arrival   |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±3.5      | ±4        | ≥-4       |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Note 1:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Values    |           |           |           |           |   |
| based on  |           |           |           |           |   |
| Refsens   |           |           |           |           |   |
| and EIS   |           |           |           |           |   |
| spherical |           |           |           |           |   |
| coverage  |           |           |           |           |   |
| as        |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in        |           |           |           |           |   |
| clauses   |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.2 and |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.4 of  |           |           |           |           |   |
| TS        |           |           |           |           |   |
| 38.101-2  |           |           |           |           |   |
| \[19\].   |           |           |           |           |   |
| A         |           |           |           |           |   |
| pplicable |           |           |           |           |   |
| side      |           |           |           |           |   |
| condition |           |           |           |           |   |
| selected  |           |           |           |           |   |
| depending |           |           |           |           |   |
| on angle  |           |           |           |           |   |
| of        |           |           |           |           |   |
| arrival.  |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 2:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Io        |           |           |           |           |   |
| specified |           |           |           |           |   |
| at the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Reference |           |           |           |           |   |
| point,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| assumed   |           |           |           |           |   |
| to have   |           |           |           |           |   |
| constant  |           |           |           |           |   |
| EPRE      |           |           |           |           |   |
| across    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| b         |           |           |           |           |   |
| andwidth. |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 3:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| In the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| test      |           |           |           |           |   |
| cases,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| CSI-RS    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| related   |           |           |           |           |   |
| p         |           |           |           |           |   |
| arameters |           |           |           |           |   |
| may need  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to be     |           |           |           |           |   |
| adjusted  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to ensure |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot at |           |           |           |           |   |
| UE        |           |           |           |           |   |
| baseband  |           |           |           |           |   |
| is above  |           |           |           |           |   |
| the value |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in this   |           |           |           |           |   |
| table.    |           |           |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+

##### 10.1.10.2.2 Relative CSI-RSRQ Accuracy

The relative accuracy of CSI-RSRQ is defined as the CSI-RSRQ measured
from one cell compared to the CSI-RSRQ measured from another cell with
the same center frequency, or between any two CSI-RSRQ levels measured
on the same cell in FR2.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.10.2.2-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

> \- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for
> reference sensitivity are fulfilled.
>
> \- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
> to Annex B.2.3 for a corresponding Band for the associated SSB.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.13 for a corresponding Band for each relevant CSI-RS.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS is 48 PRBs and the density is 3.

The performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS is equal to or better
than the accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.10.2.2-1.

\- The timing offset between the reference measurement timing and the
target CSI-RS in one layer is no larger than CP.

Note: The reference measurement timing for one layer for inter-frequency
measurement is up to UE implementation and shall be based on the timing
of one of the target cells.

Table 10.1.10.2.2-1: CSI-RSRQ Inter frequency relative accuracy in FR2

+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Accuracy  | C         |           |           |           |   |
|           | onditions |           |           |           |   |
+===========+===========+===========+===========+===========+===+
| Normal    | Extreme   | CSI-RS    | Io        |           |   |
| condition | condition | Ês/Iot    | ^Note\ 2^ |           |   |
|           |           |           | range     |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | Minimum   | Maximum   |   |
|           |           |           | Io        | Io        |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| dB        | dB        | dB        | dBm /     | dBm/BW    |   |
|           |           |           | SC        | ~Channel~ |   |
|           |           |           | S~CSI-RS~ |           |   |
|           |           |           | ^Note\ 1^ |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | SC        | SC        |   |
|           |           |           | S~CSI-RS~ | S~CSI-RS~ |   |
|           |           |           | = 60kHz   | = 120kHz  |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±3        | ±4        | ≥-3       | Same      | -50       |   |
|           |           |           | value as  |           |   |
|           |           |           | CSI\_RP   |           |   |
|           |           |           | in Table  |           |   |
|           |           |           | B.2.13-2, |           |   |
|           |           |           | according |           |   |
|           |           |           | to UE     |           |   |
|           |           |           | Power     |           |   |
|           |           |           | class,    |           |   |
|           |           |           | operating |           |   |
|           |           |           | band and  |           |   |
|           |           |           | angle of  |           |   |
|           |           |           | arrival   |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±4        | ±4        | ≥-4       |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Note 1:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Values    |           |           |           |           |   |
| based on  |           |           |           |           |   |
| Refsens   |           |           |           |           |   |
| and EIS   |           |           |           |           |   |
| spherical |           |           |           |           |   |
| coverage  |           |           |           |           |   |
| as        |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in        |           |           |           |           |   |
| clauses   |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.2 and |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.4 of  |           |           |           |           |   |
| TS        |           |           |           |           |   |
| 38.101-2  |           |           |           |           |   |
| \[19\].   |           |           |           |           |   |
| A         |           |           |           |           |   |
| pplicable |           |           |           |           |   |
| side      |           |           |           |           |   |
| condition |           |           |           |           |   |
| selected  |           |           |           |           |   |
| depending |           |           |           |           |   |
| on angle  |           |           |           |           |   |
| of        |           |           |           |           |   |
| arrival.  |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 2:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Io        |           |           |           |           |   |
| specified |           |           |           |           |   |
| at the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Reference |           |           |           |           |   |
| point,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| assumed   |           |           |           |           |   |
| to have   |           |           |           |           |   |
| constant  |           |           |           |           |   |
| EPRE      |           |           |           |           |   |
| across    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| b         |           |           |           |           |   |
| andwidth. |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 3:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| The       |           |           |           |           |   |
| parameter |           |           |           |           |   |
| CSI-RS    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot is |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| minimum   |           |           |           |           |   |
| CSI-RS    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot of |           |           |           |           |   |
| the pair  |           |           |           |           |   |
| of cells  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to which  |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| re        |           |           |           |           |   |
| quirement |           |           |           |           |   |
| applies.  |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 4:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| In the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| test      |           |           |           |           |   |
| cases,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| CSI-RS    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| related   |           |           |           |           |   |
| p         |           |           |           |           |   |
| arameters |           |           |           |           |   |
| may need  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to be     |           |           |           |           |   |
| adjusted  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to ensure |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot at |           |           |           |           |   |
| UE        |           |           |           |           |   |
| baseband  |           |           |           |           |   |
| is above  |           |           |           |           |   |
| the value |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in this   |           |           |           |           |   |
| table.    |           |           |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+

### 10.1.10B Inter-frequency RSRQ accuracy requirements for FR2 for CA/DC Idle Mode Measurements

#### 10.1.10B.1 Inter-frequency SS-RSRQ accuracy requirements in FR2

The requirements in this clause are applicable for a UE:

\- in state RRC\_IDLE or RRC INACTIVE

\- that is synchronised to the cell that is measured.

The requirements are for absolute accuracy of SS-RSRQ.

##### 10.1.10B.1.1 Absolute Accuracy of SS-RSRQ in FR2

The requirements for absolute accuracy of SS-RSRQ in this clause apply
to a cell on a frequency in FR2 that has different carrier frequency
from the serving cell.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.10B.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

> \- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for
> reference sensitivity are fulfilled.
>
> \- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
> to Annex B.1.3 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.
>
> \- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the
> percentile EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4
> of TS 38.101-2 \[19\].

Table 10.1.10B.1.1-1: SS-RSRQ Inter frequency absolute accuracy in FR2

+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Accuracy  | C         |           |           |           |   |
|           | onditions |           |           |           |   |
+===========+===========+===========+===========+===========+===+
| Normal    | Extreme   | SSB       | Io        |           |   |
| condition | condition | Ês/Iot    | ^Note\ 2^ |           |   |
|           |           |           | range     |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | Minimum   | Maximum   |   |
|           |           |           | Io        | Io        |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| dB        | dB        | dB        | dBm /     | dBm/BW    |   |
|           |           |           | SCS~SSB~  | ~Channel~ |   |
|           |           |           | ^Note\ 1^ |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | SCS~SSB~  | SCS~SSB~  |   |
|           |           |           | = 120kHz  | = 240kHz  |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±4        | ±5.5      | ≥-3       | Same      | -50       |   |
|           |           |           | value as  |           |   |
|           |           |           | SSB\_RP   |           |   |
|           |           |           | in Table  |           |   |
|           |           |           | B.2.2-2,  |           |   |
|           |           |           | according |           |   |
|           |           |           | to UE     |           |   |
|           |           |           | Power     |           |   |
|           |           |           | class,    |           |   |
|           |           |           | operating |           |   |
|           |           |           | band and  |           |   |
|           |           |           | angle of  |           |   |
|           |           |           | arrival   |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±5        | ±5.5      | ≥-4       |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Note 1:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Values    |           |           |           |           |   |
| based on  |           |           |           |           |   |
| Refsens   |           |           |           |           |   |
| and EIS   |           |           |           |           |   |
| spherical |           |           |           |           |   |
| coverage  |           |           |           |           |   |
| as        |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in        |           |           |           |           |   |
| clauses   |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.2 and |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.4 of  |           |           |           |           |   |
| TS        |           |           |           |           |   |
| 38.101-2  |           |           |           |           |   |
| \[19\].   |           |           |           |           |   |
| A         |           |           |           |           |   |
| pplicable |           |           |           |           |   |
| side      |           |           |           |           |   |
| condition |           |           |           |           |   |
| selected  |           |           |           |           |   |
| depending |           |           |           |           |   |
| on angle  |           |           |           |           |   |
| of        |           |           |           |           |   |
| arrival.  |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 2:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Io        |           |           |           |           |   |
| specified |           |           |           |           |   |
| at the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Reference |           |           |           |           |   |
| point,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| assumed   |           |           |           |           |   |
| to have   |           |           |           |           |   |
| constant  |           |           |           |           |   |
| EPRE      |           |           |           |           |   |
| across    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| b         |           |           |           |           |   |
| andwidth. |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 3:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| In the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| test      |           |           |           |           |   |
| cases,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the SSB   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| related   |           |           |           |           |   |
| p         |           |           |           |           |   |
| arameters |           |           |           |           |   |
| may need  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to be     |           |           |           |           |   |
| adjusted  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to ensure |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot at |           |           |           |           |   |
| UE        |           |           |           |           |   |
| baseband  |           |           |           |           |   |
| is above  |           |           |           |           |   |
| the value |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in this   |           |           |           |           |   |
| table.    |           |           |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+

### 10.1.11 RSRQ report mapping

10.1.11.1 SS-RSRQ and CSI-RSRQ measurement report mapping

The reporting range of SS-RSRQ and CSI-RSRQ measurement is defined from
-43 dB to 20 dB with 0.5 dB resolution. The mapping of measured quantity
is defined in Table 10.1.11.1-1. The range in the signalling may be
larger than the guaranteed accuracy range.

Table 10.1.11.1-1: SS-RSRQ and CSI-RSRQ measurement report mapping

  Reported value   Measured quantity value   Unit
  ---------------- ------------------------- ------
  SS-RSRQ\_0       SS-RSRQ\<-43              dB
  SS-RSRQ\_1       -43≤ SS-RSRQ\<-42.5       dB
  SS-RSRQ\_2       -42.5≤ SS-RSRQ\<-42       dB
  SS-RSRQ\_3       -42≤ SS-RSRQ\<-41.5       dB
  SS-RSRQ\_4       -41.5≤ SS-RSRQ\<-41       dB
  ..               ..                        ...
  SS-RSRQ\_122     17.5≤ SS-RSRQ\<18         dB
  SS-RSRQ\_123     18≤ SS-RSRQ\<18.5         dB
  SS-RSRQ\_124     18.5≤ SS-RSRQ\<19         dB
  SS-RSRQ\_125     19≤ SS-RSRQ\<19.5         dB
  SS-RSRQ\_126     19.5≤ SS-RSRQ\<20         dB
  SS-RSRQ\_127     20 ≤ SS-RSRQ              dB

### 10.1.12 Intra-frequency SINR accuracy requirements for FR1

10.1.12.1 Intra-frequency SS-SINR accuracy requirements in FR1

10.1.12.1.1 Absolute SS-SINR Accuracy in FR1

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
SS-SINR in this clause apply to a cell on the same frequency as that of
the serving cell in FR1.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.12.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for intra-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.2 for a corresponding Band.

Table 10.1.12.1.1-1: SS-SINR Intra frequency absolute accuracy in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| N     | Ex    | SSB   | Io    |       |       |       |       |
| ormal | treme | Ê     | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
| cond  | cond  | s/Iot | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |       |
| ition | ition |       | range |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       | ^Not  | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |       |
|       |       | e\ 3^ | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |       |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |       |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | e\ 4^ |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |       |
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±3.0  | ±4    | ≥-3   | N     | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±3.5  | ±4    | ≥-6   | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  |
|       |       |       | 2     | 2     | 2     | 2     | 2     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ghest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| acc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ment. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ments |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ≤ 25  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dB    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| under |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| no    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| n-HST |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| scena |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rios. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 5:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ments |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ≤5 dB |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| with  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SCS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 15kHz |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| or    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 30kHz |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| under |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NR    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| high  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| speed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| scena |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rios. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

#### 10.1.12.2 Intra-frequency CSI-SINR accuracy requirements in FR1

##### 10.1.12.2.1 Absolute CSI-SINR Accuracy in FR1

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
CSI-SINR in this clause apply to a cell on the same frequency as that of
the serving cell in FR1.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.12.2.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for intra-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.12 for a corresponding Band.

\- The timing offset between the reference measurement timing and the
target CSI-RS in one layer is no larger than CP.

-   Note: The reference measurement timing for intra-frequency
    measurement is serving cell timing.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS is 48 PRBs and the density is 3.

• The performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS is equal to or better
than the accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.12.2.1-1.

Table 10.1.12.2.1-1: CSI-SINR Intra frequency absolute accuracy in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
| **    | **Co  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| Accur | nditi |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| acy** | ons** |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+=======+
| **N   | **Ex  | **C   | **Io  |       |       |       |     |       |
| ormal | treme | SI-RS | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |       |
| c     | c     | Ês/   | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |       |
| ondit | ondit | Iot** | ra    |       |       |       |     |       |
| ion** | ion** |       | nge** |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | **NR  | **Mi  | **Ma  |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | ating | Io**  | Io**  |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | gro   |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | ups** |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
| *     | *     | *     |       | **dBm | **d   | **d   |     |       |
| *dB** | *dB** | *dB** |       | /     | Bm/BW | Bm/BW |     |       |
|       |       |       |       | SCS** | ~     | ~     |     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | Chann | Chann |     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | el~** | el~** |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       |       | **SCS |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       |       | (k    |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       |       | Hz)** |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
| ±3    | ±4    | ≥-3   |       | *     | *     | *     |     |       |
|       |       |       |       | *15** | *30** | *60** |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | -115  | N/A | -70   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -70   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 | 114.5 |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | -114  | N/A | -70   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -70   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 | 113.5 |     |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | -113  | N/A | -70   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -70   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 | 112.5 |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | -112  | N/A | -70   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -70   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 | 111.5 |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
| ±3.5  | ±4    | ≥-6   | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  | N/A | Note  |
|       |       |       | 2     | 2     | 2     | 2     |     | 2     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| hi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ghest |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| acc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| uracy |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ment. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 3: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 4:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ments |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| C     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ≤XdB. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| X=15  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| if    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| iming |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| o     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ffset |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| be    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| tween |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| refe  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| rence |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| m     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| easur |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| iming |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| arget |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| C     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| is no |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| l     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| arger |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| than  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 0.5   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| \*CP, |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| X=4   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| if    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| iming |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| o     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ffset |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| be    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| tween |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| refe  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| rence |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| m     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| easur |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| iming |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| arget |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| C     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| l     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| arger |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| than  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 0.    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 5\*CP |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| but   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| no    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| l     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| arger |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| than  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| CP.   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+

### 10.1.13 Intra-frequency SINR accuracy requirements for FR2

10.1.13.1 Intra-frequency SS-SINR accuracy requirements in FR2

10.1.13.1.1 Absolute SS-SINR Accuracy in FR2

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
SS-SINR in this clause apply to a cell on the same frequency as that of
the serving cell in FR2.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.13.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for intra-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.2 for a corresponding Band.

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the percentile
EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4 of TS 38.101-2
\[19\].

Table 10.1.13.1.1-1: SS-SINR Intra frequency absolute accuracy in FR2

+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Accuracy  | C         |           |           |           |   |
|           | onditions |           |           |           |   |
+===========+===========+===========+===========+===========+===+
| Normal    | Extreme   | SSB       | Io        |           |   |
| condition | condition | Ês/Iot    | ^Note\ 2^ |           |   |
|           |           |           | range     |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | Minimum   | Maximum   |   |
|           |           |           | Io        | Io        |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| dB        | dB        | dB        | dBm /     | dBm/BW    |   |
|           |           |           | SCS~SSB~  | ~Channel~ |   |
|           |           |           | ^Note\ 1^ |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | SCS~SSB~  | SCS~SSB~  |   |
|           |           |           | = 120kHz  | = 240kHz  |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±3        | ±4        | ≥-3       | Same      | -50       |   |
|           |           |           | value as  |           |   |
|           |           |           | SSB\_RP   |           |   |
|           |           |           | in Table  |           |   |
|           |           |           | B.2.2-2,  |           |   |
|           |           |           | according |           |   |
|           |           |           | to UE     |           |   |
|           |           |           | Power     |           |   |
|           |           |           | class,    |           |   |
|           |           |           | operating |           |   |
|           |           |           | band and  |           |   |
|           |           |           | angle of  |           |   |
|           |           |           | arrival   |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±3.5      | ±4        | ≥-6       |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Note 1:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Values    |           |           |           |           |   |
| based on  |           |           |           |           |   |
| Refsens   |           |           |           |           |   |
| and EIS   |           |           |           |           |   |
| spherical |           |           |           |           |   |
| coverage  |           |           |           |           |   |
| as        |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in        |           |           |           |           |   |
| clauses   |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.2 and |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.4 of  |           |           |           |           |   |
| TS        |           |           |           |           |   |
| 38.101-2  |           |           |           |           |   |
| \[19\].   |           |           |           |           |   |
| A         |           |           |           |           |   |
| pplicable |           |           |           |           |   |
| side      |           |           |           |           |   |
| condition |           |           |           |           |   |
| selected  |           |           |           |           |   |
| depending |           |           |           |           |   |
| on angle  |           |           |           |           |   |
| of        |           |           |           |           |   |
| arrival.  |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 2:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Io        |           |           |           |           |   |
| specified |           |           |           |           |   |
| at the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Reference |           |           |           |           |   |
| point,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| assumed   |           |           |           |           |   |
| to have   |           |           |           |           |   |
| constant  |           |           |           |           |   |
| EPRE      |           |           |           |           |   |
| across    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| b         |           |           |           |           |   |
| andwidth. |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 3:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| In the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| test      |           |           |           |           |   |
| cases,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the SSB   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| related   |           |           |           |           |   |
| p         |           |           |           |           |   |
| arameters |           |           |           |           |   |
| may need  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to be     |           |           |           |           |   |
| adjusted  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to ensure |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot at |           |           |           |           |   |
| UE        |           |           |           |           |   |
| baseband  |           |           |           |           |   |
| is above  |           |           |           |           |   |
| the value |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in this   |           |           |           |           |   |
| table.    |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 4:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| The       |           |           |           |           |   |
| req       |           |           |           |           |   |
| uirements |           |           |           |           |   |
| apply for |           |           |           |           |   |
| SSB       |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot ≤  |           |           |           |           |   |
| 25 dB.    |           |           |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+

#### 10.1.13.2 Intra-frequency CSI-SINR accuracy requirements in FR2

##### 10.1.13.2.1 Absolute CSI-SINR Accuracy in FR2

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
CSI-SINR in this clause apply to a cell on the same frequency as that of
the serving cell in FR2.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.13.2.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.12 for a corresponding Band.

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the percentile
EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4 of TS 38.101-2
\[19\].

\- The timing offset between the reference measurement timing and the
target CSI-RS in one layer is no larger than CP.

Note: The reference measurement timing for intra-frequency measurement
is serving cell timing.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS is 48 PRBs and the density is 3.

The performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS is equal to or better
than the accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.13.2.1-1.

Table 10.1.13.2.1-1: CSI-SINR Intra frequency absolute accuracy in FR2

+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Accuracy  | C         |           |           |           |   |
|           | onditions |           |           |           |   |
+===========+===========+===========+===========+===========+===+
| Normal    | Extreme   | CSI-RS    | Io        |           |   |
| condition | condition | Ês/Iot    | ^Note\ 2^ |           |   |
|           |           |           | range     |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | Minimum   | Maximum   |   |
|           |           |           | Io        | Io        |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| dB        | dB        | dB        | dBm /     | dBm/BW    |   |
|           |           |           | SC        | ~Channel~ |   |
|           |           |           | S~CSI-RS~ |           |   |
|           |           |           | ^Note\ 1^ |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | SC        | SC        |   |
|           |           |           | S~CSI-RS~ | S~CSI-RS~ |   |
|           |           |           | = 60kHz   | = 120kHz  |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±3        | ±4        | ≥-3       | Same      | -50       |   |
|           |           |           | value as  |           |   |
|           |           |           | CSI\_RP   |           |   |
|           |           |           | in Table  |           |   |
|           |           |           | B.2.12-2, |           |   |
|           |           |           | according |           |   |
|           |           |           | to UE     |           |   |
|           |           |           | Power     |           |   |
|           |           |           | class,    |           |   |
|           |           |           | operating |           |   |
|           |           |           | band and  |           |   |
|           |           |           | angle of  |           |   |
|           |           |           | arrival   |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±3.5      | ±4        | ≥-6       |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Note 1:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Values    |           |           |           |           |   |
| based on  |           |           |           |           |   |
| Refsens   |           |           |           |           |   |
| and EIS   |           |           |           |           |   |
| spherical |           |           |           |           |   |
| coverage  |           |           |           |           |   |
| as        |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in        |           |           |           |           |   |
| clauses   |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.2 and |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.4 of  |           |           |           |           |   |
| TS        |           |           |           |           |   |
| 38.101-2  |           |           |           |           |   |
| \[19\].   |           |           |           |           |   |
| A         |           |           |           |           |   |
| pplicable |           |           |           |           |   |
| side      |           |           |           |           |   |
| condition |           |           |           |           |   |
| selected  |           |           |           |           |   |
| depending |           |           |           |           |   |
| on angle  |           |           |           |           |   |
| of        |           |           |           |           |   |
| arrival.  |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 2:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Io        |           |           |           |           |   |
| specified |           |           |           |           |   |
| at the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Reference |           |           |           |           |   |
| point,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| assumed   |           |           |           |           |   |
| to have   |           |           |           |           |   |
| constant  |           |           |           |           |   |
| EPRE      |           |           |           |           |   |
| across    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| b         |           |           |           |           |   |
| andwidth. |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 3:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| In the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| test      |           |           |           |           |   |
| cases,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| CSI-RS    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| related   |           |           |           |           |   |
| p         |           |           |           |           |   |
| arameters |           |           |           |           |   |
| may need  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to be     |           |           |           |           |   |
| adjusted  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to ensure |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot at |           |           |           |           |   |
| UE        |           |           |           |           |   |
| baseband  |           |           |           |           |   |
| is above  |           |           |           |           |   |
| the value |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in this   |           |           |           |           |   |
| table.    |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 4:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| The       |           |           |           |           |   |
| req       |           |           |           |           |   |
| uirements |           |           |           |           |   |
| apply for |           |           |           |           |   |
| CSI-RS    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot    |           |           |           |           |   |
| ≤XdB.     |           |           |           |           |   |
| X=15 if   |           |           |           |           |   |
| timing    |           |           |           |           |   |
| offset    |           |           |           |           |   |
| between   |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| reference |           |           |           |           |   |
| me        |           |           |           |           |   |
| asurement |           |           |           |           |   |
| timing    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and the   |           |           |           |           |   |
| target    |           |           |           |           |   |
| CSI-RS is |           |           |           |           |   |
| no larger |           |           |           |           |   |
| than      |           |           |           |           |   |
| 0.5\*CP,  |           |           |           |           |   |
| and X=4   |           |           |           |           |   |
| if timing |           |           |           |           |   |
| offset    |           |           |           |           |   |
| between   |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| reference |           |           |           |           |   |
| me        |           |           |           |           |   |
| asurement |           |           |           |           |   |
| timing    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and the   |           |           |           |           |   |
| target    |           |           |           |           |   |
| CSI-RS is |           |           |           |           |   |
| larger    |           |           |           |           |   |
| than      |           |           |           |           |   |
| 0.5\*CP   |           |           |           |           |   |
| but no    |           |           |           |           |   |
| larger    |           |           |           |           |   |
| than CP.  |           |           |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+

### 10.1.14 Inter-frequency SINR accuracy requirements for FR1

10.1.14.1 Inter-frequency SS-SINR accuracy requirements in FR1

10.1.14.1.1 Aboslute Accuracy of SS-SINR in FR1

The requirements for absolute accuracy of SS-SINR in this clause apply
to a cell on a frequency in FR1 that has different carrier frequency
from the serving cell.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.14.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.3 for a corresponding Band.

Table 10.1.14.1.1-1: SS-SINR Inter frequency absolute accuracy in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| N     | Ex    | SSB   | Io    |       |       |       |       |
| ormal | treme | Ê     | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
| cond  | cond  | s/Iot | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |       |
| ition | ition | ^Not  | range |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | e\ 3^ |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |       |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |       |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |       |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | e\ 4^ |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |       |
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±3.0  | ±4    | ≥-3   | N     | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±3.5  | ±4    | ≥-6   | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  |
|       |       |       | 2     | 2     | 2     | 2     | 2     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ghest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| acc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ment. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ments |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ≤ 25  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dB.   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

10.1.14.1.2 Relative Accuracy of SS-SINR in FR1

The relative accuracy of SS-SINR in inter frequency case is defined as
the SS-SINR measured from one cell on a frequency in FR1 compared to the
SS-SINR measured from another cell on a different frequency in FR1.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.14.1.2-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.3 for a corresponding Band.

\- \|SSB\_RP1~dBm~ - SSB\_RP2~dBm~\| ≤ 27 dB

\- \| Channel 1\_Io ‑Channel 2\_Io \| ≤ 20 dB

Table 10.1.14.1.2-1: SS-SINR Inter frequency relative accuracy in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| N     | Ex    | SSB   | Io    |       |       |       |       |
| ormal | treme | Ê     | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
| cond  | cond  | s/Iot | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |       |
| ition | ition |       | range |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       | ^     | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |       |
|       |       | Note\ | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |       |
|       |       |  2,4^ | ating | Io    | Io    |       |       |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | e\ 5^ |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |       |
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | = 120 | = 240 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±3.5  | ±4    | ≥-3   | N     | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±4    | ±4    | ≥-6   | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  |
|       |       |       | 3     | 3     | 3     | 3     | 3     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| para  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| meter |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| pair  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cells |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| which |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| app   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lies. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ghest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| acc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ment. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ments |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ≤     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| [25\] |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dB.   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 5: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

#### 10.1.14.2 Inter-frequency CSI-SINR accuracy requirements in FR1

##### 10.1.14.2.1 Aboslute Accuracy of CSI-SINR in FR1

The requirements for absolute accuracy of CSI-SINR in this clause apply
to a cell on a frequency in FR1 that has different carrier frequency
from the serving cell.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.14.2.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.13 for a corresponding Band.

\- The timing offset between the reference measurement timing and the
target CSI-RS in one layer is no larger than CP.

Note: The reference measurement timing for inter-frequency measurement
is up to UE implementation and shall be based on the timing of one of
the target cells.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS is 48 PRBs and the density is 3.

The performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS is equal to or better
than the accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.14.2.1-1.

Table 10.1.14.2.1-1: CSI-SINR Inter frequency absolute accuracy in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
| **    | **Co  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| Accur | nditi |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| acy** | ons** |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+=======+
| **N   | **Ex  | **C   | **Io  |       |       |       |     |       |
| ormal | treme | SI-RS | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |       |
| c     | c     | Ês/   | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |       |
| ondit | ondit | Iot** | ra    |       |       |       |     |       |
| ion** | ion** |       | nge** |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | **NR  | **Mi  | **Ma  |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | ating | Io**  | Io**  |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | gro   |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | ups** |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
| *     | *     | *     |       | **dBm | **d   | **d   |     |       |
| *dB** | *dB** | *dB** |       | /     | Bm/BW | Bm/BW |     |       |
|       |       |       |       | SCS** | ~     | ~     |     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | Chann | Chann |     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | el~** | el~** |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       |       | **SCS |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       |       | (k    |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       |       | Hz)** |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
| ±3    | ±4    | ≥-3   |       | *     | *     | *     |     |       |
|       |       |       |       | *15** | *30** | *60** |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | -115  | N/A | -70   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -70   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 | 114.5 |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | -114  | N/A | -70   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -70   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 | 113.5 |     |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | -113  | N/A | -70   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -70   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 | 112.5 |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | -112  | N/A | -70   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -70   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 | 111.5 |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
| ±3.5  | ±4    | ≥-6   | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  | N/A | Note  |
|       |       |       | 2     | 2     | 2     | 2     |     | 2     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| hi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ghest |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| acc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| uracy |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ment. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 3: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 4:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ments |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| C     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ≤XdB. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| X=15  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| if    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| iming |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| o     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ffset |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| be    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| tween |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| refe  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| rence |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| m     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| easur |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| iming |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| arget |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| C     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| is no |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| l     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| arger |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| than  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 0.5   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| \*CP, |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| X=4   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| if    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| iming |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| o     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ffset |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| be    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| tween |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| refe  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| rence |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| m     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| easur |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| iming |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| arget |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| C     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| l     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| arger |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| than  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 0.    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 5\*CP |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| but   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| no    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| l     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| arger |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| than  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| CP.   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+

10.1.14.2.2 Relative Accuracy of CSI-SINR in FR1

The relative accuracy of CSI-SINR in inter frequency case is defined as
the CSI-SINR measured from one cell on a frequency in FR1 compared to
the CSI-SINR measured from another cell on a different frequency in FR1.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.14.2.2-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.13 for a corresponding Band.

\- \|CSI\_RP1~dBm~ - CSI\_RP2~dBm~\| ≤ 27 dB

\- \| Channel 1\_Io ‑Channel 2\_Io \| ≤ 20 dB

\- The timing offset between the reference measurement timing and the
target CSI-RS in one layer is no larger than CP.

Note: The reference measurement timing for inter-frequency measurement
is up to UE implementation and shall be based on the timing of one of
the target cells.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS is 48 PRBs and the density is 3.

The performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS is equal to or better
than the accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.14.2.2-1.

Table 10.1.14.2.2-1: CSI-SINR Inter frequency relative accuracy in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
| **    | **Co  |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| Accur | nditi |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| acy** | ons** |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+=======+
| **N   | **Ex  | **C   | **Io  |       |       |       |     |       |
| ormal | treme | SI-RS | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |       |
| c     | c     | Ês/   | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |       |
| ondit | ondit | Iot** | ra    |       |       |       |     |       |
| ion** | ion** | **^   | nge** |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       | Note\ |       |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |  3^** |       |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | **NR  | **Mi  | **Ma  |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | ating | Io**  | Io**  |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | gro   |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | ups** |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
| *     | *     | *     |       | **dBm | **d   | **d   |     |       |
| *dB** | *dB** | *dB** |       | /     | Bm/BW | Bm/BW |     |       |
|       |       |       |       | SCS** | ~     | ~     |     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | Chann | Chann |     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | el~** | el~** |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       |       | **SCS |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       |       | (k    |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       |       | Hz)** |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
| ±3.5  | ±4    | ≥-3   |       | *     | *     | *     |     |       |
|       |       |       |       | *15** | *30** | *60** |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | -115  | N/A | -70   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -70   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 | 114.5 |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | -114  | N/A | -70   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -70   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 | 113.5 |     |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | -113  | N/A | -70   |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -70   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 | 112.5 |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | -112  | N/A | -70   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -70   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 | 111.5 |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
| ±4    | ±4    | ≥-6   | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  | N/A | Note  |
|       |       |       | 2     | 2     | 2     | 2     |     | 2     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| hi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ghest |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| acc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| uracy |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ment. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| para  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| meter |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| C     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| C     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| pair  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| cells |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| which |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| app   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| lies. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 4: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 5:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ments |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| C     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ≤     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| XdB.  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| X=15  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| if    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| iming |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| o     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ffset |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| be    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| tween |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| refe  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| rence |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| m     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| easur |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| iming |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| arget |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| C     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| is no |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| l     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| arger |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| than  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 0.5   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| \*CP, |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| X=4   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| if    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| iming |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| o     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ffset |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| be    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| tween |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| refe  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| rence |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| m     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| easur |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| iming |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| arget |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| C     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| l     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| arger |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| than  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 0.    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 5\*CP |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| but   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| no    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| l     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| arger |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| than  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| CP.   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+

### 10.1.15 Inter-frequency SINR accuracy requirements for FR2

10.1.15.1 Inter-frequency SS-SINR accuracy requirements in FR2

10.1.15.1.1 Aboslute Accuracy of SS-SINR in FR2

The requirements for absolute accuracy of SS-SINR in this clause apply
to a cell on a frequency in FR2 that has different carrier frequency
from the serving cell.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.15.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.3 for a corresponding Band.

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the percentile
EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4 of TS 38.101-2
\[19\].

Table 10.1.15.1.1-1: SS-SINR Inter frequency absolute accuracy in FR2

+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Accuracy  | C         |           |           |           |   |
|           | onditions |           |           |           |   |
+===========+===========+===========+===========+===========+===+
| Normal    | Extreme   | SSB       | Io        |           |   |
| condition | condition | Ês/Iot    | ^Note\ 2^ |           |   |
|           |           |           | range     |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | Minimum   | Maximum   |   |
|           |           |           | Io        | Io        |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| dB        | dB        | dB        | dBm /     | dBm/BW    |   |
|           |           |           | SCS~SSB~  | ~Channel~ |   |
|           |           |           | ^Note\ 1^ |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | SCS~SSB~  | SCS~SSB~  |   |
|           |           |           | = 120kHz  | = 240kHz  |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±3        | ±4        | ≥-3       | Same      | -50       |   |
|           |           |           | value as  |           |   |
|           |           |           | SSB\_RP   |           |   |
|           |           |           | in Table  |           |   |
|           |           |           | B.2.2-2,  |           |   |
|           |           |           | according |           |   |
|           |           |           | to UE     |           |   |
|           |           |           | Power     |           |   |
|           |           |           | class,    |           |   |
|           |           |           | operating |           |   |
|           |           |           | band and  |           |   |
|           |           |           | angle of  |           |   |
|           |           |           | arrival   |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±3.5      | ±4        | ≥-4       |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Note 1:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Values    |           |           |           |           |   |
| based on  |           |           |           |           |   |
| Refsens   |           |           |           |           |   |
| and EIS   |           |           |           |           |   |
| spherical |           |           |           |           |   |
| coverage  |           |           |           |           |   |
| as        |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in        |           |           |           |           |   |
| clauses   |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.2 and |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.4 of  |           |           |           |           |   |
| TS        |           |           |           |           |   |
| 38.101-2  |           |           |           |           |   |
| \[19\].   |           |           |           |           |   |
| A         |           |           |           |           |   |
| pplicable |           |           |           |           |   |
| side      |           |           |           |           |   |
| condition |           |           |           |           |   |
| selected  |           |           |           |           |   |
| depending |           |           |           |           |   |
| on angle  |           |           |           |           |   |
| of        |           |           |           |           |   |
| arrival.  |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 2:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Io        |           |           |           |           |   |
| specified |           |           |           |           |   |
| at the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Reference |           |           |           |           |   |
| point,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| assumed   |           |           |           |           |   |
| to have   |           |           |           |           |   |
| constant  |           |           |           |           |   |
| EPRE      |           |           |           |           |   |
| across    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| b         |           |           |           |           |   |
| andwidth. |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 3:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| In the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| test      |           |           |           |           |   |
| cases,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the SSB   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| related   |           |           |           |           |   |
| p         |           |           |           |           |   |
| arameters |           |           |           |           |   |
| may need  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to be     |           |           |           |           |   |
| adjusted  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to ensure |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot at |           |           |           |           |   |
| UE        |           |           |           |           |   |
| baseband  |           |           |           |           |   |
| is above  |           |           |           |           |   |
| the value |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in this   |           |           |           |           |   |
| table.    |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 4:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| The       |           |           |           |           |   |
| req       |           |           |           |           |   |
| uirements |           |           |           |           |   |
| apply for |           |           |           |           |   |
| SSB       |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot ≤  |           |           |           |           |   |
| 25 dB.    |           |           |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+

10.1.15.1.2 Relative Accuracy of SS-SINR in FR2

The relative accuracy of SS-SINR in inter frequency case is defined as
the SS-SINR measured from one cell on a frequency in FR2 compared to the
SS-SINR measured from another cell on a different frequency in FR2.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.15.1.2-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.3 for a corresponding Band.

\- \|SSB\_RP1~dBm~ - SSB\_RP2~dBm~\| ≤ 27 dB

\- \| Channel 1\_Io ‑Channel 2\_Io \| ≤ 20 dB

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the percentile
EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4 of TS 38.101-2
\[19\].

Table 10.1.15.1.2-1: SS-SINR Inter frequency relative accuracy in FR2

+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Accuracy  | C         |           |           |           |   |
|           | onditions |           |           |           |   |
+===========+===========+===========+===========+===========+===+
| Normal    | Extreme   | SSB       | Io        |           |   |
| condition | condition | Ês/Iot    | ^Note\ 2^ |           |   |
|           |           |           | range     |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | Minimum   | Maximum   |   |
|           |           |           | Io        | Io        |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| dB        | dB        | dB        | dBm /     | dBm/BW    |   |
|           |           |           | SCS~SSB~  | ~Channel~ |   |
|           |           |           | ^Note\ 1^ |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | SCS~SSB~  | SCS~SSB~  |   |
|           |           |           | = 120kHz  | = 240kHz  |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±3.5      | ±4        | ≥-3       | Same      | -50       |   |
|           |           |           | value as  |           |   |
|           |           |           | SSB\_RP   |           |   |
|           |           |           | in Table  |           |   |
|           |           |           | B.2.2-2,  |           |   |
|           |           |           | according |           |   |
|           |           |           | to UE     |           |   |
|           |           |           | Power     |           |   |
|           |           |           | class,    |           |   |
|           |           |           | operating |           |   |
|           |           |           | band and  |           |   |
|           |           |           | angle of  |           |   |
|           |           |           | arrival   |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±4        | ±4        | ≥-6       |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Note 1:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Values    |           |           |           |           |   |
| based on  |           |           |           |           |   |
| Refsens   |           |           |           |           |   |
| and EIS   |           |           |           |           |   |
| spherical |           |           |           |           |   |
| coverage  |           |           |           |           |   |
| as        |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in        |           |           |           |           |   |
| clauses   |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.2 and |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.4 of  |           |           |           |           |   |
| TS        |           |           |           |           |   |
| 38.101-2  |           |           |           |           |   |
| \[19\].   |           |           |           |           |   |
| A         |           |           |           |           |   |
| pplicable |           |           |           |           |   |
| side      |           |           |           |           |   |
| condition |           |           |           |           |   |
| selected  |           |           |           |           |   |
| depending |           |           |           |           |   |
| on angle  |           |           |           |           |   |
| of        |           |           |           |           |   |
| arrival.  |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 2:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Io        |           |           |           |           |   |
| specified |           |           |           |           |   |
| at the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Reference |           |           |           |           |   |
| point,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| assumed   |           |           |           |           |   |
| to have   |           |           |           |           |   |
| constant  |           |           |           |           |   |
| EPRE      |           |           |           |           |   |
| across    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| b         |           |           |           |           |   |
| andwidth. |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 3:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| The       |           |           |           |           |   |
| parameter |           |           |           |           |   |
| SSB       |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot is |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| minimum   |           |           |           |           |   |
| SSB       |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot of |           |           |           |           |   |
| the pair  |           |           |           |           |   |
| of cells  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to which  |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| re        |           |           |           |           |   |
| quirement |           |           |           |           |   |
| applies.  |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 4:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| In the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| test      |           |           |           |           |   |
| cases,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the SSB   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| related   |           |           |           |           |   |
| p         |           |           |           |           |   |
| arameters |           |           |           |           |   |
| may need  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to be     |           |           |           |           |   |
| adjusted  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to ensure |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot at |           |           |           |           |   |
| UE        |           |           |           |           |   |
| baseband  |           |           |           |           |   |
| is above  |           |           |           |           |   |
| the value |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in this   |           |           |           |           |   |
| table.    |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 5:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| The       |           |           |           |           |   |
| req       |           |           |           |           |   |
| uirements |           |           |           |           |   |
| apply for |           |           |           |           |   |
| SSB       |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot ≤  |           |           |           |           |   |
| 25 dB.    |           |           |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+

#### 10.1.15.2 Inter-frequency CSI-SINR accuracy requirements in FR2

##### 10.1.15.2.1 Aboslute Accuracy of CSI-SINR in FR2

The requirements for absolute accuracy of CSI-SINR in this clause apply
to a cell on a frequency in FR2 that has different carrier frequency
from the serving cell.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.15.2.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.13 for a corresponding Band.

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the percentile
EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4 of TS 38.101-2
\[19\].

\- The timing offset between the reference measurement timing and the
target CSI-RS in one layer is no larger than CP.

Note: The reference measurement timing for inter-frequency measurement
is up to UE implementation and shall be based on the timing of one of
the target cells.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS is 48 PRBs and the density is 3.

\- The performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS is equal to or better
than the accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.15.2.1-1.

Table 10.1.15.2.1-1: CSI-SINR Inter frequency absolute accuracy in FR2

+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Accuracy  | C         |           |           |           |   |
|           | onditions |           |           |           |   |
+===========+===========+===========+===========+===========+===+
| Normal    | Extreme   | CSI-RS    | Io        |           |   |
| condition | condition | Ês/Iot    | ^Note\ 2^ |           |   |
|           |           |           | range     |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | Minimum   | Maximum   |   |
|           |           |           | Io        | Io        |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| dB        | dB        | dB        | dBm /     | dBm/BW    |   |
|           |           |           | SC        | ~Channel~ |   |
|           |           |           | S~CSI-RS~ |           |   |
|           |           |           | ^Note\ 1^ |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | SC        | SC        |   |
|           |           |           | S~CSI-RS~ | S~CSI-RS~ |   |
|           |           |           | = 60kHz   | = 120kHz  |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±3        | ±4        | ≥-3       | Same      | -50       |   |
|           |           |           | value as  |           |   |
|           |           |           | CSI\_RP   |           |   |
|           |           |           | in Table  |           |   |
|           |           |           | B.2.13-2, |           |   |
|           |           |           | according |           |   |
|           |           |           | to UE     |           |   |
|           |           |           | Power     |           |   |
|           |           |           | class,    |           |   |
|           |           |           | operating |           |   |
|           |           |           | band and  |           |   |
|           |           |           | angle of  |           |   |
|           |           |           | arrival   |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| 3.5       | ±4        | ≥-4       |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Note 1:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Values    |           |           |           |           |   |
| based on  |           |           |           |           |   |
| Refsens   |           |           |           |           |   |
| and EIS   |           |           |           |           |   |
| spherical |           |           |           |           |   |
| coverage  |           |           |           |           |   |
| as        |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in        |           |           |           |           |   |
| clauses   |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.2 and |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.4 of  |           |           |           |           |   |
| TS        |           |           |           |           |   |
| 38.101-2  |           |           |           |           |   |
| \[19\].   |           |           |           |           |   |
| A         |           |           |           |           |   |
| pplicable |           |           |           |           |   |
| side      |           |           |           |           |   |
| condition |           |           |           |           |   |
| selected  |           |           |           |           |   |
| depending |           |           |           |           |   |
| on angle  |           |           |           |           |   |
| of        |           |           |           |           |   |
| arrival.  |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 2:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Io        |           |           |           |           |   |
| specified |           |           |           |           |   |
| at the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Reference |           |           |           |           |   |
| point,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| assumed   |           |           |           |           |   |
| to have   |           |           |           |           |   |
| constant  |           |           |           |           |   |
| EPRE      |           |           |           |           |   |
| across    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| b         |           |           |           |           |   |
| andwidth. |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 3:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| In the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| test      |           |           |           |           |   |
| cases,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| CSI-RS    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| related   |           |           |           |           |   |
| p         |           |           |           |           |   |
| arameters |           |           |           |           |   |
| may need  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to be     |           |           |           |           |   |
| adjusted  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to ensure |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot at |           |           |           |           |   |
| UE        |           |           |           |           |   |
| baseband  |           |           |           |           |   |
| is above  |           |           |           |           |   |
| the value |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in this   |           |           |           |           |   |
| table.    |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 4:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| The       |           |           |           |           |   |
| req       |           |           |           |           |   |
| uirements |           |           |           |           |   |
| apply for |           |           |           |           |   |
| CSI-RS    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot    |           |           |           |           |   |
| ≤XdB.     |           |           |           |           |   |
| X=15 if   |           |           |           |           |   |
| timing    |           |           |           |           |   |
| offset    |           |           |           |           |   |
| between   |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| reference |           |           |           |           |   |
| me        |           |           |           |           |   |
| asurement |           |           |           |           |   |
| timing    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and the   |           |           |           |           |   |
| target    |           |           |           |           |   |
| CSI-RS is |           |           |           |           |   |
| no larger |           |           |           |           |   |
| than      |           |           |           |           |   |
| 0.5\*CP,  |           |           |           |           |   |
| and X=4   |           |           |           |           |   |
| if timing |           |           |           |           |   |
| offset    |           |           |           |           |   |
| between   |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| reference |           |           |           |           |   |
| me        |           |           |           |           |   |
| asurement |           |           |           |           |   |
| timing    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and the   |           |           |           |           |   |
| target    |           |           |           |           |   |
| CSI-RS is |           |           |           |           |   |
| larger    |           |           |           |           |   |
| than      |           |           |           |           |   |
| 0.5\*CP   |           |           |           |           |   |
| but no    |           |           |           |           |   |
| larger    |           |           |           |           |   |
| than CP.  |           |           |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+

##### 10.1.15.2.2 Relative Accuracy of CSI-SINR in FR2

The relative accuracy of CSI-SINR in inter frequency case is defined as
the CSI-SINR measured from one cell on a frequency in FR2 compared to
the CSI-SINR measured from another cell on a different frequency in FR2.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.15.2.2-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.y for a corresponding Band.

\- \|CSI\_RP1~dBm~ - CSI\_RP2~dBm~\| ≤ 27 dB

\- \| Channel 1\_Io ‑Channel 2\_Io \| ≤ 20 dB

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the percentile
EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4 of TS 38.101-2
\[19\].

\- The timing offset between the reference measurement timing and the
target CSI-RS in one layer is no larger than CP.

Note: The reference measurement timing for inter-frequency measurement
is up to UE implementation and shall be based on the timing of one of
the target cells.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS is 48 PRBs and the density is 3.

> \- The performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS is equal to or
> better than the accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.15.2.2-1.

Table 10.1.15.2.2-1: CSI-SINR Inter frequency relative accuracy in FR2

+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Accuracy  | C         |           |           |           |   |
|           | onditions |           |           |           |   |
+===========+===========+===========+===========+===========+===+
| Normal    | Extreme   | CSI-RS    | Io        |           |   |
| condition | condition | Ês/Iot    | ^Note\ 2^ |           |   |
|           |           |           | range     |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | Minimum   | Maximum   |   |
|           |           |           | Io        | Io        |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| dB        | dB        | dB        | dBm /     | dBm/BW    |   |
|           |           |           | SC        | ~Channel~ |   |
|           |           |           | S~CSI-RS~ |           |   |
|           |           |           | ^Note\ 1^ |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | SC        | SC        |   |
|           |           |           | S~CSI-RS~ | S~CSI-RS~ |   |
|           |           |           | = 60kHz   | = 120kHz  |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±3.5      | ±4        | ≥-3       | Same      | -50       |   |
|           |           |           | value as  |           |   |
|           |           |           | CSI\_RP   |           |   |
|           |           |           | in Table  |           |   |
|           |           |           | B.2.13-2, |           |   |
|           |           |           | according |           |   |
|           |           |           | to UE     |           |   |
|           |           |           | Power     |           |   |
|           |           |           | class,    |           |   |
|           |           |           | operating |           |   |
|           |           |           | band and  |           |   |
|           |           |           | angle of  |           |   |
|           |           |           | arrival   |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±4        | ±4        | ≥-6       |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Note 1:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Values    |           |           |           |           |   |
| based on  |           |           |           |           |   |
| Refsens   |           |           |           |           |   |
| and EIS   |           |           |           |           |   |
| spherical |           |           |           |           |   |
| coverage  |           |           |           |           |   |
| as        |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in        |           |           |           |           |   |
| clauses   |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.2 and |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.4 of  |           |           |           |           |   |
| TS        |           |           |           |           |   |
| 38.101-2  |           |           |           |           |   |
| \[19\].   |           |           |           |           |   |
| A         |           |           |           |           |   |
| pplicable |           |           |           |           |   |
| side      |           |           |           |           |   |
| condition |           |           |           |           |   |
| selected  |           |           |           |           |   |
| depending |           |           |           |           |   |
| on angle  |           |           |           |           |   |
| of        |           |           |           |           |   |
| arrival.  |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 2:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Io        |           |           |           |           |   |
| specified |           |           |           |           |   |
| at the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Reference |           |           |           |           |   |
| point,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| assumed   |           |           |           |           |   |
| to have   |           |           |           |           |   |
| constant  |           |           |           |           |   |
| EPRE      |           |           |           |           |   |
| across    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| b         |           |           |           |           |   |
| andwidth. |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 3:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| In the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| test      |           |           |           |           |   |
| cases,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| CSI-RS    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| related   |           |           |           |           |   |
| p         |           |           |           |           |   |
| arameters |           |           |           |           |   |
| may need  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to be     |           |           |           |           |   |
| adjusted  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to ensure |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot at |           |           |           |           |   |
| UE        |           |           |           |           |   |
| baseband  |           |           |           |           |   |
| is above  |           |           |           |           |   |
| the value |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in this   |           |           |           |           |   |
| table.    |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| Note 4:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| The       |           |           |           |           |   |
| req       |           |           |           |           |   |
| uirements |           |           |           |           |   |
| apply for |           |           |           |           |   |
| CSI-RS    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot    |           |           |           |           |   |
| ≤XdB.     |           |           |           |           |   |
| X=15 if   |           |           |           |           |   |
| timing    |           |           |           |           |   |
| offset    |           |           |           |           |   |
| between   |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| reference |           |           |           |           |   |
| me        |           |           |           |           |   |
| asurement |           |           |           |           |   |
| timing    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and the   |           |           |           |           |   |
| target    |           |           |           |           |   |
| CSI-RS is |           |           |           |           |   |
| no larger |           |           |           |           |   |
| than      |           |           |           |           |   |
| 0.5\*CP,  |           |           |           |           |   |
| and X=4   |           |           |           |           |   |
| if timing |           |           |           |           |   |
| offset    |           |           |           |           |   |
| between   |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| reference |           |           |           |           |   |
| me        |           |           |           |           |   |
| asurement |           |           |           |           |   |
| timing    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and the   |           |           |           |           |   |
| target    |           |           |           |           |   |
| CSI-RS is |           |           |           |           |   |
| larger    |           |           |           |           |   |
| than      |           |           |           |           |   |
| 0.5\*CP   |           |           |           |           |   |
| but no    |           |           |           |           |   |
| larger    |           |           |           |           |   |
| than CP.  |           |           |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+

### 10.1.16 SINR report mapping

10.1.16.1 SS-SINR and CSI-SINR measurement report mapping

The reporting range of SS-SINR and CSI-SINR for L3 reporting and L1
reporing is defined from -23 dB to 40 dB with 0.5 dB resolution. The
mapping of measured quantity is defined in Table 10.1.16.1-1. The range
in the signalling may be larger than the guaranteed accuracy range.

The reporting range of differential SS-SINR and CSI-SINR for L1
reporting and L3 reporting is defined from -15 dB to 0 dB with 1 dB
resolution.

The mapping of measured quantity is defined in Table 10.1.16.1-2. The
range in the signalling may be larger than the guaranteed accuracy
range.

Table 10.1.16.1-1: SS-SINR and CSI-SINR measurement report mapping

  Reported value   Measured quantity value (L3 SS-SINR and L3 CSI-SINR)   Measured quantity value (L1 SS-SINR and L1 CSI-SINR)   Unit
  ---------------- ------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------------ ------
  SINR\_0          SINR\<-23                                              SINR\<-23                                              dB
  SINR\_1          -23≤SINR\<-22.5                                        -23≤SINR\<-22.5                                        dB
  SINR\_2          -22.5≤SINR\<-22                                        -22.5≤SINR\<-22                                        dB
  SINR\_3          -22≤SINR\<-21.5                                        -22≤SINR\<-21.5                                        dB
  SINR\_4          -21.5≤SINR\<-21                                        -21.5≤SINR\<-21                                        dB
  ..               ..                                                     ..                                                     ...
  SINR\_123        38≤SINR\<38.5                                          38≤SINR\<38.5                                          dB
  SINR\_124        38.5≤SINR\<39                                          38.5≤SINR\<39                                          dB
  SINR\_125        39≤SINR\<39.5                                          39≤SINR\<39.5                                          dB
  SINR\_126        39.5≤SINR\<40                                          39.5≤SINR\<40                                          dB
  SINR\_127        40≤SINR                                                40≤SINR                                                dB

Table 10.1.16.1-2: Differential SS-SINR and CSI-SINR measurement (for L1
reporting and L3 reporting) report mapping

  Reported value   Measured quantity value (difference in measured SINR from largest SINR)   Unit
  ---------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------
  DIFFSINR\_0      0≥ΔSINR\>-1                                                               dB
  DIFFSINR\_1      -1≥ΔSINR\>-2                                                              dB
  DIFFSINR\_2      -2≥ΔSINR\>-3                                                              dB
  DIFFSINR\_3      -3≥ΔSINR\>-4                                                              dB
  DIFFSINR\_4      -4≥ΔSINR\>-5                                                              dB
  DIFFSINR\_5      -5≥ΔSINR\>-6                                                              dB
  DIFFSINR\_6      -6≥ΔSINR\>-7                                                              dB
  DIFFSINR\_7      -7≥ΔSINR\>-8                                                              dB
  DIFFSINR\_8      -8≥ΔSINR\>-9                                                              dB
  DIFFSINR\_9      -9≥ΔSINR\>-10                                                             dB
  DIFFSINR\_10     -10≥ΔSINR\>-11                                                            dB
  DIFFSINR\_11     -11≥ΔSINR\>-12                                                            dB
  DIFFSINR\_12     -12≥ΔSINR\>-13                                                            dB
  DIFFSINR\_13     -13≥ΔSINR\>-14                                                            dB
  DIFFSINR\_14     -14≥ΔSINR\>-15                                                            dB
  DIFFSINR\_15     -15≥ΔSINR                                                                 dB

### 10.1.17 Power Headroom

10.1.17.1 Power Headroom Report

10.1.17.1.1 Power Headroom Report Mapping

The power headroom reporting range is from -32 \...+38 dB. Table
10.1.17.1-1 defines the report mapping.

Table 10.1.17.1-1: Power headroom report mapping

  Reported value        Measured quantity value (dB)
  --------------------- ------------------------------
  POWER\_HEADROOM\_0    PH \< -32
  POWER\_HEADROOM\_1    -32 ≤ PH \< -31
  POWER\_HEADROOM\_2    -31 ≤ PH \< -30
  POWER\_HEADROOM\_3    -30 ≤ PH \< -29
  ...                   ...
  POWER\_HEADROOM\_53   20 ≤ PH \< 21
  POWER\_HEADROOM\_54   21 ≤ PH \< 22
  POWER\_HEADROOM\_55   22 ≤ PH \< 24
  POWER\_HEADROOM\_56   24 ≤ PH \< 26
  POWER\_HEADROOM\_57   26 ≤ PH \< 28
  POWER\_HEADROOM\_58   28 ≤ PH \< 30
  POWER\_HEADROOM\_59   30 ≤ PH \< 32
  POWER\_HEADROOM\_60   32 ≤ PH \< 34
  POWER\_HEADROOM\_61   34 ≤ PH \< 36
  POWER\_HEADROOM\_62   36 ≤ PH \< 38
  POWER\_HEADROOM\_63   PH ≥ 38

### 10.1.18 P~CMAX,c,f~

The UE is required to report the UE configured maximum output power
(P~CMAX,c,f~) together with the power headroom. This clause defines the
requirements for the P~CMAX,c,f~ reporting.

10.1.18.1 Report Mapping

The P~CMAX,c,f~ reporting range is defined from -29 dBm to 33 dBm with 1
dB resolution. Table 10.1.18.1-1 defines the reporting mapping.

Table 10.1.18.1-1 Mapping of P~CMAX,c.f~

  Reported value   Measured quantity value    Unit
  ---------------- -------------------------- ------
  PCMAX\_C\_00     P~CMAX,c,f~ \< -29         dBm
  PCMAX\_C\_01     -29 ≤ P~CMAX,c,f~ \< -28   dBm
  PCMAX\_C\_02     -28 ≤ P~CMAX,c,f~ \< -27   dBm
  ...              ...                        ...
  PCMAX\_C\_61     31 ≤ P~CMAX,c,f~ \< 32     dBm
  PCMAX\_C\_62     32 ≤ P~CMAX,c,f~ \< 33     dBm
  PCMAX\_C\_63     33 ≤ P~CMAX,c,f~           dBm

### 10.1.19 L1-RSRP accuracy requirements for FR1

10.1.19.1 SSB based L1-RSRP accuracy requirements

10.1.19.1.1 Absolute Accuracy

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
SSB based L1-RSRP in this clause apply to all SSBs of the serving cell
configured for L1-RSRP measurement.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.19.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for L1-RSRP measurements are fulfilled according to Annex
B.2.4.1 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

Table 10.1.19.1.1-1: SSB based L1-RSRP absolute accuracy in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+
| N     | Ex    | SSB   | Io    |       |       |       |     |
| ormal | treme | Ê     | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |
| cond  | cond  | s/Iot | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |
| ition | ition |       | range |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |     |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |     |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |     |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |     |
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |     |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| ±5.0  | ±9.5  | ≥-3   | N     | -     | -     | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| ±8.5  | ±11.5 | ≥-3   | N     | N/A   | N/A   | -70   | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_SD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | L\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_B, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_C, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_F, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_G, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_H, |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 2: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+

10.1.19.1.2 Relative Accuracy

The relative accuracy of SSB based L1-RSRP is defined as the L1-RSRP
measured from one SSB compared to the largest measured value of L1-RSRP
among all SSBs of the serving cell.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.19.1.2-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for L1-RSRP measurements are fulfilled according to Annex
B.2.4.1 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

Table 10.1.19.1.2-1: SSB based L1-RSRP relative accuracy in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+
| N     | Ex    | SSB   | Io    |       |       |       |     |
| ormal | treme | Ê     | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |
| cond  | cond  | s/Iot | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |
| ition | ition | ^Not  | range |       |       |       |     |
|       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |     |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |     |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |     |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | e\ 4^ |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |     |
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |     |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| ±3    | ±4    | ≥-3   | N     | -     | -     | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| para  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| meter |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| pair  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| SSBs  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| which |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| app   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| lies. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 4: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+

10.1.19.2 CSI-RS based L1-RSRP accuracy requirements

10.1.19.2.1 Absolute Accuracy

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
CSI-RS based L1-RSRP in this clause apply to all CSI-RS resources of the
serving cell configured for L1-RSRP measurement.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.19.2.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for L1-RSRP measurements are fulfilled according to Annex
B.2.4.2 for a corresponding Band for each relevant CSI-RS.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS is 48 PRBs and the density is 3.

The performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS is equal to or better
than the accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.19.2.1-1.

Table 10.1.19.2.1-1: CSI-RS based L1-RSRP absolute accuracy in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+=====+
| N     | Ex    | C     | Io    |       |       |       |     |     |
| ormal | treme | SI-RS | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |     |
| cond  | cond  | Ê     | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |     |
| ition | ition | s/Iot | range |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | S     | W~Cha | W~Cha |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | CS~CS | nnel~ | nnel~ |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | I-RS~ |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       |       | S     | S     | S     |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | CS~CS | CS~CS | CS~CS |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | I-RS~ | I-RS~ | I-RS~ |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  | = 60  |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   | kHz   |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | -115  | N/A | -70 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 | 114.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | -114  | N/A | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| ±5.0  | ±9.5  | ≥-3   | N     | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -70 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 | 113.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | -113  | N/A | -70 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 | 112.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | -112  | N/A | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 | 111.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| ±8.5  | ±11.5 | ≥-3   | N     | N/A   | N/A   | N/A   | -70 | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_SD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | L\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_B, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_C, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_F, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_G, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 2: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+

10.1.19.2.2 Relative Accuracy

The relative accuracy of CSI-RS based L1-RSRP is defined as the L1-RSRP
measured from one CSI-RS compared to the largest measured value of
L1-RSRP among all CSI-RS resources of the serving cell.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.19.2.2-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for L1-RSRP measurements are fulfilled according to Annex
B.2.4.2 for a corresponding Band for each relevant CSI-RS.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS is 48 PRBs and the density is 3.

The performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS is equal to or better
than the accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.19.2.2-1.

Table 10.1.19.2.2-1: CSI-RS based L1-RSRP relative accuracy in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+=====+
| N     | Ex    | C     | Io    |       |       |       |     |     |
| ormal | treme | SI-RS | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |     |
| cond  | cond  | Ê     | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |     |
| ition | ition | s/Iot | range |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | e\ 4^ |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | S     | W~Cha | W~Cha |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | CS~CS | nnel~ | nnel~ |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | I-RS~ |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       |       | S     | S     | S     |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | CS~CS | CS~CS | CS~CS |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | I-RS~ | I-RS~ | I-RS~ |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  | = 60  |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   | kHz   |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | -115  | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 | 114.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | -114  | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| ±3    | ±4    | ≥-3   | N     | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 | 113.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | -113  | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 | 112.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | -112  | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 | 111.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| para  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| meter |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| C     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| C     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| pair  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| C     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| reso  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| urces |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| which |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| app   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| lies. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 4: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+

### 10.1.20 L1-RSRP accuracy requirements for FR2

10.1.20.1 SSB based L1-RSRP accuracy requirements

10.1.20.1.1 Absolute Accuracy

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
SSB based L1-RSRP in this clause apply to all SSBs of the serving cell
configured for L1-RSRP measurement.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.20.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for L1-RSRP measurements are fulfilled according to Annex
B.2.4.1 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the percentile
EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4 of TS 38.101-2
\[19\].

Table 10.1.20.1.1-1: SSB based L1-RSRP absolute accuracy in FR2

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| Accuracy | Co       |          |          |          |          |   |
|          | nditions |          |          |          |          |   |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+===+
| Normal   | Extreme  | SSB      | Io       |          |          |   |
| c        | c        | Ês/Iot   | ^        |          |          |   |
| ondition | ondition |          | Note\ 1^ |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | range    |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          |          | Minimum  | Maximum  |          |   |
|          |          |          | Io       | Io       |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| dB       | dB       | dB       | dBm /    | dBm/BW~  | dBm/BW~  |   |
|          |          |          | SCS~SSB~ | Channel~ | Channel~ |   |
|          |          |          | ^        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | Note\ 2^ |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          |          | SCS~SSB~ | SCS~SSB~ |          |   |
|          |          |          | = 120kHz | = 240kHz |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| ±6.5     | ±9.5     | ≥-3      | Same     | N/A      | -70      |   |
|          |          |          | value as |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | SSB\_RP  |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | in Table |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | B.       |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | 2.4.1-2, |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | a        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | ccording |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | to UE    |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | Power    |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | class,   |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | o        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | perating |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | band and |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | angle of |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | arrival  |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| ±8.5     | ±11.5    | ≥-3      | N/A      | -70      | -50      |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Io       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pecified |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| at the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| R        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| eference |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| point,   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| assumed  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to have  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| constant |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| EPRE     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| across   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ba       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ndwidth. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Values   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| based on |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Refsens  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and EIS  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pherical |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| coverage |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| as       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| in       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| clauses  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 7.3.2    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 7.3.4 of |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| TS       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 38.101-2 |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| \[19\].  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| side     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| c        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ondition |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| selected |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| d        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| epending |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| on angle |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| of       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| arrival. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| NOTE 3:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| In the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| test     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| cases,   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the SSB  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| related  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pa       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| rameters |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| may need |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to be    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| adjusted |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ensure   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| at UE    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| baseband |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| is above |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| value    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| in this  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| table.   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+

10.1.20.1.2 Relative Accuracy

The relative accuracy of SSB based L1-RSRP is defined as the L1-RSRP
measured from one SSB compared to the largest measured value of L1-RSRP
among all SSBs of the serving cell.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.20.1.2-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for L1-RSRP measurements are fulfilled according to Annex
B.2.4.1 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the percentile
EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4 of TS 38.101-2
\[19\].

Table 10.1.20.1.2-1: SSB based L1-RSRP relative accuracy in FR2

+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Accuracy  | C         |           |           |           |   |
|           | onditions |           |           |           |   |
+===========+===========+===========+===========+===========+===+
| Normal    | Extreme   | SSB       | Io        |           |   |
| condition | condition | Ês/Iot    | ^Note\ 1^ |           |   |
|           |           |           | range     |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | Minimum   | Maximum   |   |
|           |           |           | Io        | Io        |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| dB        | dB        | dB        | dBm /     | dBm/BW    |   |
|           |           |           | SCS~SSB~  | ~Channel~ |   |
|           |           |           | ^Note\ 3^ |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | SCS~SSB~  | SCS~SSB~  |   |
|           |           |           | = 120kHz  | = 240kHz  |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±6.5      | ±9.5      | ≥-3       | Same      | -50       |   |
|           |           |           | value as  |           |   |
|           |           |           | SSB\_RP   |           |   |
|           |           |           | in Table  |           |   |
|           |           |           | B         |           |   |
|           |           |           | .2.4.1-2, |           |   |
|           |           |           | according |           |   |
|           |           |           | to UE     |           |   |
|           |           |           | Power     |           |   |
|           |           |           | class,    |           |   |
|           |           |           | operating |           |   |
|           |           |           | band and  |           |   |
|           |           |           | angle of  |           |   |
|           |           |           | arrival   |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| NOTE 1:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Io        |           |           |           |           |   |
| specified |           |           |           |           |   |
| at the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Reference |           |           |           |           |   |
| point,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| assumed   |           |           |           |           |   |
| to have   |           |           |           |           |   |
| constant  |           |           |           |           |   |
| EPRE      |           |           |           |           |   |
| across    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| b         |           |           |           |           |   |
| andwidth. |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| NOTE 2:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| The       |           |           |           |           |   |
| parameter |           |           |           |           |   |
| SSB       |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot is |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| minimum   |           |           |           |           |   |
| SSB       |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot of |           |           |           |           |   |
| the pair  |           |           |           |           |   |
| of SSBs   |           |           |           |           |   |
| to which  |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| re        |           |           |           |           |   |
| quirement |           |           |           |           |   |
| applies.  |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| NOTE 3:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Values    |           |           |           |           |   |
| based on  |           |           |           |           |   |
| Refsens   |           |           |           |           |   |
| and EIS   |           |           |           |           |   |
| spherical |           |           |           |           |   |
| coverage  |           |           |           |           |   |
| as        |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in        |           |           |           |           |   |
| clauses   |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.2 and |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.4 of  |           |           |           |           |   |
| TS        |           |           |           |           |   |
| 38.101-2  |           |           |           |           |   |
| \[19\].   |           |           |           |           |   |
| A         |           |           |           |           |   |
| pplicable |           |           |           |           |   |
| side      |           |           |           |           |   |
| condition |           |           |           |           |   |
| selected  |           |           |           |           |   |
| depending |           |           |           |           |   |
| on angle  |           |           |           |           |   |
| of        |           |           |           |           |   |
| arrival.  |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| NOTE 4:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| In the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| test      |           |           |           |           |   |
| cases,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the SSB   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| related   |           |           |           |           |   |
| p         |           |           |           |           |   |
| arameters |           |           |           |           |   |
| may need  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to be     |           |           |           |           |   |
| adjusted  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to ensure |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot at |           |           |           |           |   |
| UE        |           |           |           |           |   |
| baseband  |           |           |           |           |   |
| is above  |           |           |           |           |   |
| the value |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in this   |           |           |           |           |   |
| table.    |           |           |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+

10.1.20.2 CSI-RS based L1-RSRP accuracy requirements

10.1.20.2.1 Absolute Accuracy

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
CSI-RS based L1-RSRP in this clause apply to all CSI-RS resources of the
serving cell configured for L1-RSRP measurement.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.20.2.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for L1-RSRP measurements are fulfilled according to Annex
B.2.4.2 for a corresponding Band for each relevant CSI-RS.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS is 48 PRBs and the density is 3.

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the percentile
EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4 of TS 38.101-2
\[19\].

The performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS is equal to or better
than the accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.20.2.1-1.

Table 10.1.20.2.1-1: CSI-RS based L1-RSRP absolute accuracy in FR2

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| Accuracy | Co       |          |          |          |          |   |
|          | nditions |          |          |          |          |   |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+===+
| Normal   | Extreme  | CSI-RS   | Io       |          |          |   |
| c        | c        | Ês/Iot   | ^        |          |          |   |
| ondition | ondition |          | Note\ 1^ |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | range    |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          |          | Minimum  | Maximum  |          |   |
|          |          |          | Io       | Io       |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| dB       | dB       | dB       | dBm /    | dBm/BW~  | dBm/BW~  |   |
|          |          |          | SCS      | Channel~ | Channel~ |   |
|          |          |          | ~CSI-RS~ |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | ^        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | Note\ 2^ |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          |          | SCS      | SCS      |          |   |
|          |          |          | ~CSI-RS~ | ~CSI-RS~ |          |   |
|          |          |          | = 60kHz  | = 120kHz |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| ±6.5     | ±9.5     | ≥-3      | Same     | N/A      | -70      |   |
|          |          |          | value as |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | CS       |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | I-RS\_RP |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | in Table |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | B.       |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | 2.4.2-2, |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | a        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | ccording |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | to UE    |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | Power    |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | class,   |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | o        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | perating |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | band and |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | angle of |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | arrival  |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| ±8.5     | ±11.5    | ≥-3      | N/A      | -70      | -50      |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Io       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pecified |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| at the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| R        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| eference |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| point,   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| assumed  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to have  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| constant |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| EPRE     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| across   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ba       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ndwidth. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Values   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| based on |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Refsens  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and EIS  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pherical |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| coverage |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| as       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| in       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| clauses  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 7.3.2    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 7.3.4 of |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| TS       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 38.101-2 |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| \[19\].  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| side     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| c        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ondition |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| selected |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| d        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| epending |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| on angle |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| of       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| arrival. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| NOTE 3:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| In the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| test     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| cases,   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| CSI-RS   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| related  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pa       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| rameters |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| may need |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to be    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| adjusted |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ensure   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| at UE    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| baseband |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| is above |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| value    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| in this  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| table.   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+

10.1.20.2.2 Relative Accuracy

The relative accuracy of CSI-RS based L1-RSRP is defined as the L1-RSRP
measured from one CSI-RS compared to the largest measured value of
L1-RSRP among all CSI-RS resources of the serving cell.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.20.2.2-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for L1-RSRP measurements are fulfilled according to Annex
B.2.4.2 for a corresponding Band for each relevant CSI-RS.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS is 48 PRBs and the density is 3.

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the percentile
EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4 of TS 38.101-2
\[19\].

The performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS is equal to or better
than the accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.20.2.2-1.

Table 10.1.20.2.2-1: CSI-RS based L1-RSRP relative accuracy in FR2

+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Accuracy  | C         |           |           |           |   |
|           | onditions |           |           |           |   |
+===========+===========+===========+===========+===========+===+
| Normal    | Extreme   | CSI-RS    | Io        |           |   |
| condition | condition | Ês/Iot    | ^Note\ 1^ |           |   |
|           |           |           | range     |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | Minimum   | Maximum   |   |
|           |           |           | Io        | Io        |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| dB        | dB        | dB        | dBm /     | dBm/BW    |   |
|           |           |           | SC        | ~Channel~ |   |
|           |           |           | S~CSI-RS~ |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           |           | SC        | SC        |   |
|           |           |           | S~CSI-RS~ | S~CSI-RS~ |   |
|           |           |           | = 60kHz   | = 120kHz  |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±6.5      | ±9.5      | ≥-3       | Same      | -50       |   |
|           |           |           | value as  |           |   |
|           |           |           | CSI-RS RP |           |   |
|           |           |           | in Table  |           |   |
|           |           |           | B         |           |   |
|           |           |           | .2.4.2-2, |           |   |
|           |           |           | according |           |   |
|           |           |           | to UE     |           |   |
|           |           |           | Power     |           |   |
|           |           |           | class,    |           |   |
|           |           |           | operating |           |   |
|           |           |           | band and  |           |   |
|           |           |           | angle of  |           |   |
|           |           |           | arrival   |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| NOTE 1:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Io        |           |           |           |           |   |
| specified |           |           |           |           |   |
| at the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Reference |           |           |           |           |   |
| point,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| assumed   |           |           |           |           |   |
| to have   |           |           |           |           |   |
| constant  |           |           |           |           |   |
| EPRE      |           |           |           |           |   |
| across    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| b         |           |           |           |           |   |
| andwidth. |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| NOTE 2:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| The       |           |           |           |           |   |
| parameter |           |           |           |           |   |
| CSI-RS    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot is |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| minimum   |           |           |           |           |   |
| CSI-RS    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot of |           |           |           |           |   |
| the pair  |           |           |           |           |   |
| of CSI-RS |           |           |           |           |   |
| resources |           |           |           |           |   |
| to which  |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| re        |           |           |           |           |   |
| quirement |           |           |           |           |   |
| applies.  |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| NOTE 3:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Values    |           |           |           |           |   |
| based on  |           |           |           |           |   |
| Refsens   |           |           |           |           |   |
| and EIS   |           |           |           |           |   |
| spherical |           |           |           |           |   |
| coverage  |           |           |           |           |   |
| as        |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in        |           |           |           |           |   |
| clauses   |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.2 and |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.4 of  |           |           |           |           |   |
| TS        |           |           |           |           |   |
| 38.101-2  |           |           |           |           |   |
| \[19\].   |           |           |           |           |   |
| A         |           |           |           |           |   |
| pplicable |           |           |           |           |   |
| side      |           |           |           |           |   |
| condition |           |           |           |           |   |
| selected  |           |           |           |           |   |
| depending |           |           |           |           |   |
| on angle  |           |           |           |           |   |
| of        |           |           |           |           |   |
| arrival.  |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| NOTE 4:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| In the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| test      |           |           |           |           |   |
| cases,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| CSI-RS    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| related   |           |           |           |           |   |
| p         |           |           |           |           |   |
| arameters |           |           |           |           |   |
| may need  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to be     |           |           |           |           |   |
| adjusted  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to ensure |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot at |           |           |           |           |   |
| UE        |           |           |           |           |   |
| baseband  |           |           |           |           |   |
| is above  |           |           |           |           |   |
| the value |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in this   |           |           |           |           |   |
| table.    |           |           |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+

### 10.1.21 SFTD accuracy requirements

10.1.21.1 SFTD acuracy requirements for NE-DC

The SFN and frame timing difference (SFTD) is measured between PCell and
E-UTRAN PSCell under NE-DC.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.21.1-4 are appilicable under the
following conditions:

For FR1 PCell SFN and frame timing measurement:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Io range deifined in Table 10.1.21.1-1.

Table 10.1.21.1-1: PCell Io range conditions in FR1

+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
| Parameter     | Io ^Note\ 1^  |               |               |     |
|               | range         |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
|               | NR operating  | Minimum Io    | Maximum Io    |     |
|               | band groups   | ^Note\ 2,\ 3^ |               |     |
|               | ^Note\ 4,\ 5^ |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
|               |               | dBm/ SCS~SSB~ | dB            |     |
|               |               |               | m/BW~Channel~ |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
|               |               | SCS~SSB~ = 15 | SCS~SSB~ = 30 |     |
|               |               | kHz           | kHz           |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
| Conditions    | NR\           | -121          | -118          | -50 |
|               | _FDD\_FR1\_A, |               |               |     |
|               | NR            |               |               |     |
|               | \_TDD\_FR1\_A |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
|               | NR            | -120.5        | -117.5        | -50 |
|               | \_FDD\_FR1\_B |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
|               | NR            | -120          | -117          | -50 |
|               | \_TDD\_FR1\_C |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
|               | NR\           | -119.5        | -116.5        | -50 |
|               | _FDD\_FR1\_D, |               |               |     |
|               | NR            |               |               |     |
|               | \_TDD\_FR1\_D |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
|               | NR\           | -119          | -116          | -50 |
|               | _FDD\_FR1\_E, |               |               |     |
|               | NR            |               |               |     |
|               | \_TDD\_FR1\_E |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
|               | NR            | -118.5        | -115.5        | -50 |
|               | \_FDD\_FR1\_F |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
|               | NR            | -118          | -115          | -50 |
|               | \_FDD\_FR1\_G |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
|               | NR            | -117.5        | -114.5        | -50 |
|               | \_FDD\_FR1\_H |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
| NOTE 1: Io is |               |               |               |     |
| assumed to    |               |               |               |     |
| have constant |               |               |               |     |
| EPRE across   |               |               |               |     |
| the           |               |               |               |     |
| bandwidth.    |               |               |               |     |
|               |               |               |               |     |
| NOTE 2: The   |               |               |               |     |
| condition     |               |               |               |     |
| level is      |               |               |               |     |
| increased by  |               |               |               |     |
| ΔR~IB,c~ as   |               |               |               |     |
| defined in    |               |               |               |     |
| clause 7.3B   |               |               |               |     |
| in            |               |               |               |     |
| TS 38.        |               |               |               |     |
| 101-3 \[20\], |               |               |               |     |
| depending on  |               |               |               |     |
| E-UTRA -- NR  |               |               |               |     |
| band          |               |               |               |     |
| combination.  |               |               |               |     |
|               |               |               |               |     |
| NOTE 3: The   |               |               |               |     |
| condition     |               |               |               |     |
| level is      |               |               |               |     |
| increased by  |               |               |               |     |
| MSD as        |               |               |               |     |
| defined in    |               |               |               |     |
| clause 7.3B   |               |               |               |     |
| in            |               |               |               |     |
| TS 38.        |               |               |               |     |
| 101-3 \[20\], |               |               |               |     |
| if applicable |               |               |               |     |
| depending on  |               |               |               |     |
| E-UTRA -- NR  |               |               |               |     |
| band          |               |               |               |     |
| combination.  |               |               |               |     |
|               |               |               |               |     |
| NOTE 4: NR    |               |               |               |     |
| operating     |               |               |               |     |
| band groups   |               |               |               |     |
| are as        |               |               |               |     |
| defined in    |               |               |               |     |
| clause 3.5.   |               |               |               |     |
|               |               |               |               |     |
| NOTE 5: Only  |               |               |               |     |
| NR bands      |               |               |               |     |
| within EN-DC  |               |               |               |     |
| band          |               |               |               |     |
| combinations  |               |               |               |     |
| as specified  |               |               |               |     |
| in clause     |               |               |               |     |
| 5.5B in       |               |               |               |     |
| TS 38         |               |               |               |     |
| .101-3 \[20\] |               |               |               |     |
| are           |               |               |               |     |
| applicable.   |               |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+

For FR2 PCell SFN and frame timing measurement:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Io range deifined in Table 10.1.21.1-2.

Table 10.1.21.1-2: PCell Io range conditions in FR2

+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-----+
| Parameter         | Io ^Note\ 1^      |                   |     |
|                   | range             |                   |     |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-----+
|                   | Minimum Io        | Maximum Io        |     |
|                   | ^Note\ 2,\ 3^     |                   |     |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-----+
|                   | dBm/ SCS~SSB~     | dBm/BW~Channel~   |     |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-----+
|                   | SCS~SSB~ = 15 kHz | SCS~SSB~ = 30 kHz |     |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-----+
| Conditions        | Same value as     | Same value as     | -50 |
|                   | SSB\_RP in Table  | SSB\_RP in Table  |     |
|                   | B.2.4.1-2,        | B.2.4.1-2,        |     |
|                   | according to UE   | according to UE   |     |
|                   | Power class,      | Power class,      |     |
|                   | operating band    | operating band    |     |
|                   | and angle of      | and angle of      |     |
|                   | arrival           | arrival           |     |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-----+
| NOTE 1: Io is     |                   |                   |     |
| assumed to have   |                   |                   |     |
| constant EPRE     |                   |                   |     |
| across the        |                   |                   |     |
| bandwidth and     |                   |                   |     |
| specified at the  |                   |                   |     |
| Reference point.  |                   |                   |     |
|                   |                   |                   |     |
| NOTE 2: Values    |                   |                   |     |
| based on Refsens  |                   |                   |     |
| and EIS spherical |                   |                   |     |
| coverage as       |                   |                   |     |
| defined in        |                   |                   |     |
| clauses 7.3.2 and |                   |                   |     |
| 7.3.4 of          |                   |                   |     |
| TS                |                   |                   |     |
|  38.101-2 \[19\]. |                   |                   |     |
| Applicable side   |                   |                   |     |
| condition         |                   |                   |     |
| selected          |                   |                   |     |
| depending on      |                   |                   |     |
| angle of arrival. |                   |                   |     |
|                   |                   |                   |     |
| NOTE 3: In the    |                   |                   |     |
| test cases, the   |                   |                   |     |
| SSB Ês/Iot and    |                   |                   |     |
| related           |                   |                   |     |
| parameters may    |                   |                   |     |
| need to be        |                   |                   |     |
| adjusted to       |                   |                   |     |
| ensure Ês/Iot at  |                   |                   |     |
| UE baseband is    |                   |                   |     |
| above the value   |                   |                   |     |
| defined in this   |                   |                   |     |
| table.            |                   |                   |     |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-----+

For E-UTRA PSCell SFN and frame timing measurement:

\- Cell specific reference signals are transmitted either from one, two
or four antenna ports.

\- Conditions defined in TS 36.101 \[25\] Clause 7.3 for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- No changes to the uplink transmission timing are applied during the
measurement period.

\- RSRP\|~dBm~ according to Annex B.3.5 in TS 36.101 \[25\] for a
corresponding Band.

\- Io range deifined in Table 10.1.21.1-3.

Table 10.1.21.1-3: E-UTRA PSCell Io range conditions

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Parameter      | Io ^Note\ 1^   |                |                |
|                | range          |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | E-UTRA         | Minimum Io     | Maximum Io     |
|                | operating band |                |                |
|                | groups         |                |                |
|                | ^Note\ 3^      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Conditions     |                | dBm/15kHz      | d              |
|                |                | ^Note\ 2^      | Bm/BW~Channel~ |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | FDD\_A, TDD\_A | -121           | -50            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | FDD\_C, TDD\_C | -120           | -50            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | FDD\_D         | -119.5         | -50            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | FDD\_E, TDD\_E | -119           | -50            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | FDD\_F         | -118.5         | -50            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | FDD\_G         | -118           | -50            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | FDD\_H         | -117.5         | -50            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | FDD\_N         | -114.5         | -50            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| NOTE 1: When   |                |                |                |
| in dBm/15kHz,  |                |                |                |
| the minimum Io |                |                |                |
| condition is   |                |                |                |
| expressed as   |                |                |                |
| the average Io |                |                |                |
| per RE over    |                |                |                |
| all REs in     |                |                |                |
| that symbol.   |                |                |                |
| Io may be      |                |                |                |
| different in   |                |                |                |
| different      |                |                |                |
| symbols within |                |                |                |
| a subframe.    |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 2: The    |                |                |                |
| condition      |                |                |                |
| level is       |                |                |                |
| increased by   |                |                |                |
| ∆\>0, when     |                |                |                |
| applicable, as |                |                |                |
| described in   |                |                |                |
| clauses B.4.2  |                |                |                |
| and B.4.3 in   |                |                |                |
| TS36.133       |                |                |                |
| \[15\].        |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 3: E-UTRA |                |                |                |
| operating band |                |                |                |
| groups are as  |                |                |                |
| defined in     |                |                |                |
| clause 3.5 in  |                |                |                |
| TS 36.133      |                |                |                |
| \[15\].        |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

Table 10.1.21.1-4: SFTD measurement accuracy

+-------------------------------+------------------+-----------------+
| Accuracy                      | Conditions       |                 |
+-------------------------------+------------------+-----------------+
|                               | Ês/Iot ^Note\ 2^ | Frequency range |
+-------------------------------+------------------+-----------------+
| Ts ^Note\ 1^                  | dB               |                 |
+-------------------------------+------------------+-----------------+
| 40\*64\*Tc                    | ≥-3              | FR1             |
+-------------------------------+------------------+-----------------+
| 40\*64\*Tc                    |                  | FR2             |
+-------------------------------+------------------+-----------------+
| NOTE 1: Tc is the basic       |                  |                 |
| timing unit defined in        |                  |                 |
| TS 38.211 \[6\].              |                  |                 |
|                               |                  |                 |
| NOTE 2: The parameter Ês/Iot  |                  |                 |
| is the minimum Ês/Iot of the  |                  |                 |
| pair of cells to which the    |                  |                 |
| requirement applies.          |                  |                 |
+-------------------------------+------------------+-----------------+

10.1.21.2 SFTD acuracy requirements for NR-DC

The SFN and frame timing difference (SFTD) is measured between PCell in
FR1 and PSCell in FR2 under NR dual connectivity.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.21.2-3 are appilicable under the
following conditions:

For FR1 PCell SFN and frame timing measurement:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Io range deifined in Table 10.1.21.2-1.

Table 10.1.21.2-1: PCell Io range conditions in FR1

+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
| Parameter     | Io ^Note\ 1^  |               |               |     |
|               | range         |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
|               | NR operating  | Minimum Io    | Maximum Io    |     |
|               | band groups   |               |               |     |
|               | ^Note\ 2^     |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
|               |               | dBm/ SCS~SSB~ | dB            |     |
|               |               |               | m/BW~Channel~ |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
|               |               | SCS~SSB~ = 15 | SCS~SSB~ = 30 |     |
|               |               | kHz           | kHz           |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
| Conditions    | NR\           | -121          | -118          | -50 |
|               | _FDD\_FR1\_A, |               |               |     |
|               | NR            |               |               |     |
|               | \_TDD\_FR1\_A |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
|               | NR            | -120.5        | -117.5        | -50 |
|               | \_FDD\_FR1\_B |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
|               | NR            | -120          | -117          | -50 |
|               | \_TDD\_FR1\_C |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
|               | NR\           | -119.5        | -116.5        | -50 |
|               | _FDD\_FR1\_D, |               |               |     |
|               | NR            |               |               |     |
|               | \_TDD\_FR1\_D |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
|               | NR\           | -119          | -116          | -50 |
|               | _FDD\_FR1\_E, |               |               |     |
|               | NR            |               |               |     |
|               | \_TDD\_FR1\_E |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
|               | NR            | -118.5        | -115.5        | -50 |
|               | \_FDD\_FR1\_F |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
|               | NR            | -118          | -115          | -50 |
|               | \_FDD\_FR1\_G |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
|               | NR            | -117.5        | -114.5        | -50 |
|               | \_FDD\_FR1\_H |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
| NOTE 1: Io is |               |               |               |     |
| assumed to    |               |               |               |     |
| have constant |               |               |               |     |
| EPRE across   |               |               |               |     |
| the           |               |               |               |     |
| bandwidth.    |               |               |               |     |
|               |               |               |               |     |
| NOTE 2: NR    |               |               |               |     |
| operating     |               |               |               |     |
| band groups   |               |               |               |     |
| are as        |               |               |               |     |
| defined in    |               |               |               |     |
| clause 3.5.2. |               |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+

For FR2 PSCell SFN and frame timing measurement:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Io range deifined in Table 10.1.21.2-2.

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the percentile
EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4 of TS 38.101-2
\[19\].

Table 10.1.21.2-2: PSCell Io range conditions in FR2

+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-----+
| Parameter         | Io ^Note\ 1^      |                   |     |
|                   | range             |                   |     |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-----+
|                   | Minimum Io        | Maximum Io        |     |
|                   | ^Note\ 2,\ 3^     |                   |     |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-----+
|                   | dBm/ SCS~SSB~     | dBm/BW~Channel~   |     |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-----+
|                   | SCS~SSB~ = 15 kHz | SCS~SSB~ = 30 kHz |     |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-----+
| Conditions        | Same value as     | Same value as     | -50 |
|                   | SSB\_RP in Table  | SSB\_RP in Table  |     |
|                   | B.2.4.1-2,        | B.2.4.1-2,        |     |
|                   | according to UE   | according to UE   |     |
|                   | Power class,      | Power class,      |     |
|                   | operating band    | operating band    |     |
|                   | and angle of      | and angle of      |     |
|                   | arrival           | arrival           |     |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-----+
| NOTE 1: Io is     |                   |                   |     |
| assumed to have   |                   |                   |     |
| constant EPRE     |                   |                   |     |
| across the        |                   |                   |     |
| bandwidth and     |                   |                   |     |
| specified at the  |                   |                   |     |
| Reference point.  |                   |                   |     |
|                   |                   |                   |     |
| NOTE 2: Values    |                   |                   |     |
| based on Refsens  |                   |                   |     |
| and EIS spherical |                   |                   |     |
| coverage as       |                   |                   |     |
| defined in        |                   |                   |     |
| clauses 7.3.2 and |                   |                   |     |
| 7.3.4 of          |                   |                   |     |
| TS                |                   |                   |     |
|  38.101-2 \[19\]. |                   |                   |     |
| Applicable side   |                   |                   |     |
| condition         |                   |                   |     |
| selected          |                   |                   |     |
| depending on      |                   |                   |     |
| angle of arrival. |                   |                   |     |
|                   |                   |                   |     |
| NOTE 3: In the    |                   |                   |     |
| test cases, the   |                   |                   |     |
| SSB Ês/Iot and    |                   |                   |     |
| related           |                   |                   |     |
| parameters may    |                   |                   |     |
| need to be        |                   |                   |     |
| adjusted to       |                   |                   |     |
| ensure Ês/Iot at  |                   |                   |     |
| UE baseband is    |                   |                   |     |
| above the value   |                   |                   |     |
| defined in this   |                   |                   |     |
| table.            |                   |                   |     |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-----+

**Table 10.1.21.2-3: SFTD measurement accuracy**

+---------------------------+------------------+---------------------+
| Accuracy                  | Conditions       |                     |
+---------------------------+------------------+---------------------+
|                           | Ês/Iot ^Note\ 2^ | Frequency range     |
+---------------------------+------------------+---------------------+
| Ts ^Note\ 1^              | dB               |                     |
+---------------------------+------------------+---------------------+
| 40\*64\*Tc                | ≥ -3             | Between FR1 and FR2 |
+---------------------------+------------------+---------------------+
| NOTE 1: Tc is the basic   |                  |                     |
| timing unit defined in    |                  |                     |
| TS 38.211 \[6\].          |                  |                     |
|                           |                  |                     |
| NOTE 2: The parameter     |                  |                     |
| Ês/Iot is the minimum     |                  |                     |
| Ês/Iot of the pair of     |                  |                     |
| cells to which the        |                  |                     |
| requirement applies.      |                  |                     |
+---------------------------+------------------+---------------------+

10.1.21.3 Inter frequency SFTD acuracy requirements

The SFN and frame timing difference (SFTD) is measured between PCell and
inter-frequency neighbour cell.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.21.3-3 are appilicable under the
following conditions:

For FR1 PCell, inter frequency neighbour cell SFN and frame timing
measurement:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Io range deifined in Table 10.1.21.3-1.

Table 10.1.21.3-1: PCell, inter frequency neighbour cell Io range
conditions in FR1

+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
| Parameter     | Io ^Note\ 1^  |               |               |     |
|               | range         |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
|               | NR operating  | Minimum Io    | Maximum Io    |     |
|               | band groups   |               |               |     |
|               | ^Note\ 2^     |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
|               |               | dBm/ SCS~SSB~ | dB            |     |
|               |               |               | m/BW~Channel~ |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
|               |               | SCS~SSB~ = 15 | SCS~SSB~ = 30 |     |
|               |               | kHz           | kHz           |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
| Conditions    | NR\           | -121          | -118          | -50 |
|               | _FDD\_FR1\_A, |               |               |     |
|               | NR            |               |               |     |
|               | \_TDD\_FR1\_A |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
|               | NR            | -120.5        | -117.5        | -50 |
|               | \_FDD\_FR1\_B |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
|               | NR            | -120          | -117          | -50 |
|               | \_TDD\_FR1\_C |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
|               | NR\           | -119.5        | -116.5        | -50 |
|               | _FDD\_FR1\_D, |               |               |     |
|               | NR            |               |               |     |
|               | \_TDD\_FR1\_D |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
|               | NR\           | -119          | -116          | -50 |
|               | _FDD\_FR1\_E, |               |               |     |
|               | NR            |               |               |     |
|               | \_TDD\_FR1\_E |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
|               | NR            | -118.5        | -115.5        | -50 |
|               | \_FDD\_FR1\_F |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
|               | NR            | -118          | -115          | -50 |
|               | \_FDD\_FR1\_G |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
|               | NR            | -117.5        | -114.5        | -50 |
|               | \_FDD\_FR1\_H |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
| NOTE 1: Io is |               |               |               |     |
| assumed to    |               |               |               |     |
| have constant |               |               |               |     |
| EPRE across   |               |               |               |     |
| the           |               |               |               |     |
| bandwidth.    |               |               |               |     |
|               |               |               |               |     |
| NOTE 2: NR    |               |               |               |     |
| operating     |               |               |               |     |
| band groups   |               |               |               |     |
| are as        |               |               |               |     |
| defined in    |               |               |               |     |
| clause 3.5.2. |               |               |               |     |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----+

For FR2 PCell, inter frequency neighbour cell SFN and frame timing
measurement:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Io range deifined in Table 10.1.21.3-2.

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the percentile
EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4 of TS 38.101-2
\[19\].

Table 10.1.21.3-2: PCell, inter frequency neighbour cell Io range
conditions in FR2

+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-----+
| Parameter         | Io ^Note\ 1^      |                   |     |
|                   | range             |                   |     |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-----+
|                   | Minimum Io        | Maximum Io        |     |
|                   | ^Note\ 2,\ 3^     |                   |     |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-----+
|                   | dBm/ SCS~SSB~     | dBm/BW~Channel~   |     |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-----+
|                   | SCS~SSB~ = 15 kHz | SCS~SSB~ = 30 kHz |     |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-----+
| Conditions        | Same value as     | Same value as     | -50 |
|                   | SSB\_RP in Table  | SSB\_RP in Table  |     |
|                   | B.2.4.1-2,        | B.2.4.1-2,        |     |
|                   | according to UE   | according to UE   |     |
|                   | Power class,      | Power class,      |     |
|                   | operating band    | operating band    |     |
|                   | and angle of      | and angle of      |     |
|                   | arrival           | arrival           |     |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-----+
| NOTE 1: Io is     |                   |                   |     |
| assumed to have   |                   |                   |     |
| constant EPRE     |                   |                   |     |
| across the        |                   |                   |     |
| bandwidth and     |                   |                   |     |
| specified at the  |                   |                   |     |
| Reference point.  |                   |                   |     |
|                   |                   |                   |     |
| NOTE 2: Values    |                   |                   |     |
| based on Refsens  |                   |                   |     |
| and EIS spherical |                   |                   |     |
| coverage as       |                   |                   |     |
| defined in        |                   |                   |     |
| clauses 7.3.2 and |                   |                   |     |
| 7.3.4 of          |                   |                   |     |
| TS                |                   |                   |     |
|  38.101-2 \[19\]. |                   |                   |     |
| Applicable side   |                   |                   |     |
| condition         |                   |                   |     |
| selected          |                   |                   |     |
| depending on      |                   |                   |     |
| angle of arrival. |                   |                   |     |
|                   |                   |                   |     |
| NOTE 3: In the    |                   |                   |     |
| test cases, the   |                   |                   |     |
| SSB Ês/Iot and    |                   |                   |     |
| related           |                   |                   |     |
| parameters may    |                   |                   |     |
| need to be        |                   |                   |     |
| adjusted to       |                   |                   |     |
| ensure Ês/Iot at  |                   |                   |     |
| UE baseband is    |                   |                   |     |
| above the value   |                   |                   |     |
| defined in this   |                   |                   |     |
| table.            |                   |                   |     |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-----+

Table 10.1.21.3-3: Inter frequency SFTD measurement accuracy

+-------------------------------+------------------+-----------------+
| Accuracy                      | Conditions       |                 |
+-------------------------------+------------------+-----------------+
|                               | Ês/Iot ^Note\ 2^ | Frequency range |
+-------------------------------+------------------+-----------------+
| Ts ^Note\ 1^                  | dB               |                 |
+-------------------------------+------------------+-----------------+
| 40\*64\*Tc                    | ≥ -3             | FR1, FR2        |
+-------------------------------+------------------+-----------------+
| NOTE 1: Tc is the basic       |                  |                 |
| timing unit defined in        |                  |                 |
| TS 38.211 \[6\].              |                  |                 |
|                               |                  |                 |
| NOTE 2: The parameter Ês/Iot  |                  |                 |
| is the minimum Ês/Iot of the  |                  |                 |
| pair of cells to which the    |                  |                 |
| requirement applies.          |                  |                 |
+-------------------------------+------------------+-----------------+

### 10.1.22 CLI measurement accuracy requirements

10.1.22.1 SRS-RSRP

10.1.22.1.1 SRS-RSRP Accuracy

The SRS-RSRP measurement reported by the UE shall fulfil the accuracy
requirements defined in Table 10.1.22.1.1-1 for FR1 and Table
10.1.22.1.1-2 for FR2, provided that the following conditions are met.
The accuracy requirements in this clause are derived based on AWGN radio
propagation conditions.

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for SRS-RSRP measurements are fulfilled according to Annex
B.2.z for a corresponding Band for each relevant SRS resource configured
for measurement.

\- The time difference between UE's DL reference timing in the serving
cell and SRS arrival time is no larger than T~error\_SRS\_RSRP~, where

\- T~error\_SRS\_RSRP~ = T~C~ × N~TA\_offset~ + 4.67us for FR1

\- T~error\_SRS\_RSRP~ = T~C~ × N~TA\_offset~ + 3.67us for FR2

\- N~TA\_offset~ is defined in Table 7.1.2-2

\- T~C~ is 0.509ns

\- The number of SRS ports in the SRS resource configured for
measurement is 1,

\- The number of symbols in the SRS resource configured for measurement
is 1,

\- The number of repetitions in the SRS resource configured for
measurement is 1,

\- Frequency hopping, sequence group hopping or sequence hopping is
disabled in the SRS resource configured for measurement,

\- The bandwidth of the SRS resource is 48 PRBs.

\- One of the following conditions is met

\- There is no other SRS resource with the same root sequence and on the
same symbol and with same comb as the relevant SRS resource.

\- If multiple SRS resources are on the same symbol and with same comb,
the distance between cyclic shifts of any two resources is no less than
6 if transmissionComb = n4, and no less than 4 if transmissionComb = n2.

Table 10.1.22.1.1-1: SRS-RSRP absolute accuracy in FR1

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Accuracy</th>
<th>Conditions</th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Normal condition</td>
<td>Extreme condition</td>
<td>SRS Ês/Iot</td>
<td>Io <sup>Note 1</sup> range</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR operating band groups <sup>Note 2</sup></td>
<td>Minimum Io</td>
<td>Maximum Io</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>dB</td>
<td>dB</td>
<td></td>
<td>dBm / SCS<sub>SRS</sub></td>
<td>dBm/BW <sub>Channel</sub></td>
<td>dBm/BW <sub>Channel</sub></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>SCS<sub>SRS</sub> (kHz)</td>
<td>SCS<sub>SRS</sub> (kHz)</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>15</td>
<td>30</td>
<td>60</td>
<td>15</td>
<td>30</td>
<td>60</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>SCS<sub>SRS</sub> = 15 kHz</td>
<td>SCS<sub>SRS</sub> = 30 kHz</td>
<td>SCS<sub>SRS</sub> = 60 kHz</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>±3</td>
<td>±3.5</td>
<td>±5</td>
<td>±7.5</td>
<td>±8</td>
<td>±9.5</td>
<td>≥1</td>
<td>NR_TDD_FR1_A,</td>
<td>-120</td>
<td>-117</td>
<td>-114</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>-70</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR_TDD_FR1_C</td>
<td>-119</td>
<td>-116</td>
<td>-113</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>-70</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR_TDD_FR1_D</td>
<td>-118.5</td>
<td>-115.5</td>
<td>-112.5</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>-70</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR_TDD_FR1_E</td>
<td>-118</td>
<td>-115</td>
<td>-112</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>-70</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>±6.5</td>
<td>±7</td>
<td>±8.5</td>
<td>±9.5</td>
<td>±10</td>
<td>±11.5</td>
<td>≥1</td>
<td><p>NR_TDD_FR1_A,</p>
<p>NR_TDD_FR1_C, NR_TDD_FR1_D, NR_TDD_FR1_E</p></td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>-70</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>NOTE 1: Io is assumed to have constant EPRE across the bandwidth.</p>
<p>NOTE 2: NR operating band groups in FR1 are as defined in clause 3.5.2.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 10.1.22.1.1-2: SRS-RSRP absolute accuracy in FR2

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+---+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+===+
| N     | Ex    | SRS   | Io    |       |       |       |     |   |
| ormal | treme | Ê     | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |   |
| cond  | cond  | s/Iot | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |   |
| ition | ition |       | range |       |       |       |     |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+---+
|       |       |       | Mi    | Ma    |       |       |     |   |
|       |       |       | nimum | ximum |       |       |     |   |
|       |       |       | Io    | Io    |       |       |     |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+---+
| dB    | dB    | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |       |       |     |   |
|       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |       |       |     |   |
|       |       | ~SRS~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |       |       |     |   |
|       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |     |   |
|       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |       |     |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+---+
| SCS   | SCS   |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |       |     |   |
| ~SRS~ | ~SRS~ |       | ~SRS~ | ~SRS~ |       |       |     |   |
| (kHz) | (kHz) |       | =     | =     |       |       |     |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+---+
| 60    | 120   | 60    | 120   |       | 60kHz | 1     |     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 20kHz |     |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+---+
| ±6    | ±8.5  | ±9    | ±11.5 | ≥1    | Same  | N/A   | -70 |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | value |       |     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | as    |       |     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | SR    |       |     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | S\_RP |       |     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | Table |       |     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | B.2   |       |     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | .7-2, |       |     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | acco  |       |     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | rding |       |     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | to UE |       |     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | Power |       |     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | lass, |       |     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | ating |       |     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | band  |       |     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | angle |       |     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | ar    |       |     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | rival |       |     |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+---+
| ±9    | ±11.5 | ±11   | ±13.5 | ≥1    | N/A   | -70   | -50 |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+---+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| spec  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| ified |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| at    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| Refe  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| rence |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| p     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| oint, |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| V     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| alues |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| based |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| on    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| Re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| fsens |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| EIS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| sphe  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| rical |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| cov   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| erage |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| cl    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| auses |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| 7.3.2 |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| 7.3.4 |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| of TS |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| 38.   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| 101-2 |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| \[    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| 19\]. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| Appli |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| cable |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| side  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| cond  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| ition |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| sel   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| ected |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| depe  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| on    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| angle |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| arr   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| ival. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| 3: In |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| ases, |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| lated |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| param |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| eters |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| may   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| need  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| to be |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| adj   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| usted |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| e     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| nsure |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| at UE |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| bas   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| eband |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| above |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| value |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
| able. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+---+

10.1.22.1.2 SRS-RSRP report mapping

The reporting range of SRS-RSRP is defined from -140 dBm to -44 dBm with
1 dB resolution. The mapping of measured quantity is defined in Table
10.1.22.1.2-1. The range in the signalling may be larger than the
guaranteed accuracy range.

Table 10.1.22.1.2-1: SRS-RSRP measurement report mapping

  Reported value                                                                          Measured quantity value   Unit
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------- ------
  SRS-RSRP\_0                                                                             SRS-RSRP\<-140            dBm
  SRS-RSRP\_1                                                                             -140≤ SRS-RSRP\<-139      dBm
  SRS-RSRP\_2                                                                             -139≤ SRS-RSRP\<-138      dBm
  SRS-RSRP\_3                                                                             -138≤ SRS-RSRP\<-137      dBm
  SRS-RSRP\_4                                                                             -137≤ SRS-RSRP\<-136      dBm
  ..                                                                                      ..                        ...
  SRS-RSRP\_95                                                                            -46≤ SRS-RSRP\<-45        dBm
  SRS-RSRP\_96                                                                            -45≤ SRS-RSRP\<-44        dBm
  SRS-RSRP\_97                                                                            -44≤ SRS-RSRP             dBm
  SRS-RSRP\_98                                                                            Infinity                  
  Note: 'Infinity' means that UE cannot detect SRS due to too strong signal to measure.                             

10.1.22.2 CLI-RSSI

10.1.22.2.1 CLI-RSSI Accuracy

The CLI-RSSI measurement reported by the UE shall fulfil the accuracy
requirements defined in Table 10.1.22.2.1-1 for FR1 and Table
10.1.22.2.1-2 for FR2, provided that the following conditions are met.

> \- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for
> reference sensitivity are fulfilled.

Table 10.1.22.2.1-1: CLI-RSSI absolute accuracy in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |     |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+=====+
| N     | Ex    | Io    |       |       |       |     |     |
| ormal | treme | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |     |
| cond  | cond  | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |     |
| ition | ition | range |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |     |     |
|       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |     |     |
|       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |     |     |
|       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       | g     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       | roups |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |     |     |
|       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |     |     |
|       |       |       | ~SRS~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   | SCS   |     |     |
|       |       |       | ~SRS~ | ~SRS~ | ~SRS~ |     |     |
|       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  | = 60  |     |     |
|       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   | kHz   |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| ±3.5  | ±6.5  | N     | -120  | -117  | -114  | N/A | -70 |
|       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       | NR\_T | -119  | -116  | -113  | N/A | -70 |
|       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       | NR\_T | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -70 |
|       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 | 112.5 |     |     |
|       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       | NR\_T | -118  | -115  | -112  | N/A | -70 |
|       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| ±5.5  | ±8.5  | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  | -70 | -50 |
|       |       | 3     | 3     | 3     | 3     |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 2: NR |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| hi    |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| ghest |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| acc   |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| uracy |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| ment. |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+

Table 10.1.22.2.1-2: CLI-RSSI absolute accuracy in FR2

+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| Accuracy  | C         |           |           |           |   |
|           | onditions |           |           |           |   |
+===========+===========+===========+===========+===========+===+
| Normal    | Extreme   | Io        |           |           |   |
| condition | condition | ^Note\ 1^ |           |           |   |
|           |           | range     |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           | Minimum   | Maximum   |           |   |
|           |           | Io        | Io        |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| dB        | dB        | dBm /     | dBm/BW    | dBm/BW    |   |
|           |           | SCS~SRS~  | ~Channel~ | ~Channel~ |   |
|           |           | ^Note\ 2^ |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
|           |           | SCS~SRS~  | SCS~SRS~  |           |   |
|           |           | = 60kHz   | = 120kHz  |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±5        | ±8        | Same      | N/A       | -70       |   |
|           |           | value as  |           |           |   |
|           |           | SRS\_RP   |           |           |   |
|           |           | in Table  |           |           |   |
|           |           | B.2.7-2,  |           |           |   |
|           |           | according |           |           |   |
|           |           | to UE     |           |           |   |
|           |           | Power     |           |           |   |
|           |           | class,    |           |           |   |
|           |           | operating |           |           |   |
|           |           | band and  |           |           |   |
|           |           | angle of  |           |           |   |
|           |           | arrival   |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| ±7        | ±10       | Note 4    | -70       | -50       |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
| NOTE 1:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Io        |           |           |           |           |   |
| specified |           |           |           |           |   |
| at the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| Reference |           |           |           |           |   |
| point,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| assumed   |           |           |           |           |   |
| to have   |           |           |           |           |   |
| constant  |           |           |           |           |   |
| EPRE      |           |           |           |           |   |
| across    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| b         |           |           |           |           |   |
| andwidth. |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| NOTE 2:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Values    |           |           |           |           |   |
| based on  |           |           |           |           |   |
| Refsens   |           |           |           |           |   |
| and EIS   |           |           |           |           |   |
| spherical |           |           |           |           |   |
| coverage  |           |           |           |           |   |
| as        |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in        |           |           |           |           |   |
| clauses   |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.2 and |           |           |           |           |   |
| 7.3.4 of  |           |           |           |           |   |
| TS        |           |           |           |           |   |
| 38.101-2  |           |           |           |           |   |
| \[19\].   |           |           |           |           |   |
| A         |           |           |           |           |   |
| pplicable |           |           |           |           |   |
| side      |           |           |           |           |   |
| condition |           |           |           |           |   |
| selected  |           |           |           |           |   |
| depending |           |           |           |           |   |
| on angle  |           |           |           |           |   |
| of        |           |           |           |           |   |
| arrival.  |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| NOTE 3:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| In the    |           |           |           |           |   |
| test      |           |           |           |           |   |
| cases,    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the SSB   |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot    |           |           |           |           |   |
| and       |           |           |           |           |   |
| related   |           |           |           |           |   |
| p         |           |           |           |           |   |
| arameters |           |           |           |           |   |
| may need  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to be     |           |           |           |           |   |
| adjusted  |           |           |           |           |   |
| to ensure |           |           |           |           |   |
| Ês/Iot at |           |           |           |           |   |
| UE        |           |           |           |           |   |
| baseband  |           |           |           |           |   |
| is above  |           |           |           |           |   |
| the value |           |           |           |           |   |
| defined   |           |           |           |           |   |
| in this   |           |           |           |           |   |
| table.    |           |           |           |           |   |
|           |           |           |           |           |   |
| NOTE 4:   |           |           |           |           |   |
| The same  |           |           |           |           |   |
| bands and |           |           |           |           |   |
| the same  |           |           |           |           |   |
| Io        |           |           |           |           |   |
| c         |           |           |           |           |   |
| onditions |           |           |           |           |   |
| for each  |           |           |           |           |   |
| band      |           |           |           |           |   |
| apply for |           |           |           |           |   |
| this      |           |           |           |           |   |
| re        |           |           |           |           |   |
| quirement |           |           |           |           |   |
| as for    |           |           |           |           |   |
| the       |           |           |           |           |   |
| corr      |           |           |           |           |   |
| esponding |           |           |           |           |   |
| highest   |           |           |           |           |   |
| accuracy  |           |           |           |           |   |
| req       |           |           |           |           |   |
| uirement. |           |           |           |           |   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+

10.1.22.2.2 CLI-RSSI report mapping

The reporting range of CLI-RSSI is defined from -100 dBm to -25 dBm with
1 dB resolution. The mapping of measured quantity is defined in Table
10.1.22.2.2-1. The range in the signalling may be larger than the
guaranteed accuracy range. UE shall scale the measured CLI-RSSI to
report a nominal RSSI equivalent to 6RB measurement with 15kHz SCS.

Table 10.1.22.2.2-1: CLI-RSSI measurement report mapping

  ---------------- ------------------------- ------
  Reported value   Measured quantity value   Unit
  CLI-RSSI\_00     CLI-RSSI \< ‑100          dBm
  CLI-RSSI\_01     -100 ≤ CLI-RSSI \< ‑99    dBm
  CLI-RSSI\_02     -99 ≤ CLI-RSSI \< ‑98     dBm
  ...              ...                       ...
  CLI-RSSI\_74     -27 ≤ CLI-RSSI \< -26     dBm
  CLI-RSSI\_75     -26 ≤ CLI-RSSI \< -25     dBm
  CLI-RSSI\_76     -25 ≤ CLI-RSSI            dBm
  ---------------- ------------------------- ------

#### 10.1.24.3.1 Absolute PRS-RSRP Measurement Report Mapping

The reporting range of absolute PRS-RSRP measurement is defined from
-156 dBm to -31 dBm with 1 dB resolution.

The mapping of measured quantity is defined in Table 10.1.24.3.1-1. The
range in the signalling may be larger than the guaranteed accuracy
range.

Table 10.1.24.3.1-1: Measurement report mapping for PRS-RSRP

  Reported value   Measured quantity value   Unit
  ---------------- ------------------------- ------
  PRS\_RSRP\_0     PRS-RSRP\<-156            dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_1     -156≤PRS-RSRP\<-155       dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_2     -155≤PRS-RSRP\<-154       dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_3     -154≤PRS-RSRP\<-153       dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_4     -153≤PRS-RSRP\<-152       dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_5     -152≤PRS-RSRP\<-151       dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_6     -151≤PRS-RSRP\<-150       dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_7     -150≤PRS-RSRP\<-149       dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_8     -149≤PRS-RSRP\<-148       dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_9     -148≤PRS-RSRP\<-147       dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_10    -147≤PRS-RSRP\<-146       dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_11    -146≤PRS-RSRP\<-145       dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_12    -145≤PRS-RSRP\<-144       dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_13    -144≤PRS-RSRP\<-143       dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_14    -143≤PRS-RSRP\<-142       dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_15    -142≤PRS-RSRP\<-141       dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_16    -141≤PRS-RSRP\<-140       dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_17    -140≤PRS-RSRP\<-139       dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_18    -139≤PRS-RSRP\<-138       dBm
  ...              ...                       ...
  PRS\_RSRP\_111   -46≤PRS-RSRP\<-45         dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_112   -45≤PRS-RSRP\<-44         dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_113   -44≤PRS-RSRP\<-43         dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_114   -43≤PRS-RSRP\<-42         dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_115   -42≤PRS-RSRP\<-41         dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_116   -41≤PRS-RSRP\<-40         dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_117   -40≤PRS-RSRP\<-39         dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_118   -39≤PRS-RSRP\<-38         dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_119   -38≤PRS-RSRP\<-37         dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_120   -37≤PRS-RSRP\<-36         dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_121   -36≤PRS-RSRP\<-35         dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_122   -35≤PRS-RSRP\<-34         dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_123   -34≤PRS-RSRP\<-33         dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_124   -33≤PRS-RSRP\<-32         dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_125   -32≤PRS-RSRP\<-31         dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_126   -31≤PRS-RSRP              dBm

#### 10.1.24.3.2 Differential Report Mapping for PRS-RSRP Measurement

The reporting range of differential PRS-RSRP is defined from -30 dB to 0
dB with 1 dB resolution when *nr-DL-AoD-RequestLocationInformation*
message is received.

The mapping of measured quantity is defined in Table 10.1.24.3.2-1. The
range in the signalling may be larger than the guaranteed accuracy
range.

The reporting range of differential PRS-RSRP is defined from -30 dB to
30 dB with 1 dB resolution when *nr-DL-TDOA-RequestLocationInformation*
or *nr-Multi-RTT-RequestLocationInformation is received*.

The mapping of measured quantity is defined in Table 10.1.24.3.2-2. The
range in the signalling may be larger than the guaranteed accuracy range
or the range supported by the UE receiver for differentail RSRP measured
on different PRS resources in frequency domain at the same time.

Table 10.1.24.3.2-1: Measurement report mapping for differential
PRS-RSRP

  Reported value   Measured quantity value   Unit
  ---------------- ------------------------- ------
  DIFFRSRP\_0      -30≥ΔRSRP                 dB
  DIFFRSRP\_1      -29≥ΔRSRP\>-30            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_2      -28≥ΔRSRP\>-29            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_3      -27≥ΔRSRP\>-28            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_4      -26≥ΔRSRP\>-27            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_5      -25≥ΔRSRP\>-26            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_6      -24≥ΔRSRP\>-25            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_7      -23≥ΔRSRP\>-24            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_8      -22≥ΔRSRP\>-23            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_9      -21≥ΔRSRP\>-22            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_10     -20≥ΔRSRP\>-21            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_11     -19≥ΔRSRP\>-20            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_12     -18≥ΔRSRP\>-19            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_13     -17≥ΔRSRP\>-18            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_14     -16≥ΔRSRP\>-17            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_15     -15≥ΔRSRP\>-16            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_16     -14≥ΔRSRP\>-15            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_17     -13≥ΔRSRP\>-14            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_18     -12≥ΔRSRP\>-13            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_19     -11≥ΔRSRP\>-12            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_20     -10≥ΔRSRP\>-11            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_21     -9≥ΔRSRP\>-10             dB
  DIFFRSRP\_22     -8≥ΔRSRP\>-9              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_23     -7≥ΔRSRP\>-8              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_24     -6≥ΔRSRP\>-7              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_25     -5≥ΔRSRP\>-6              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_26     -4≥ΔRSRP\>-5              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_27     -3≥ΔRSRP\>-4              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_28     -2≥ΔRSRP\>-3              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_29     -1≥ΔRSRP\>-2              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_30     0≥ΔRSRP\>-1               dB

Table 10.1.24.3.2-2: Measurement report mapping for differential
PRS-RSRP

  Reported value   Measured quantity value   Unit
  ---------------- ------------------------- ------
  DIFFRSRP\_0      -30≥ΔRSRP                 dB
  DIFFRSRP\_1      -29≥ΔRSRP\>-30            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_2      -28≥ΔRSRP\>-29            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_3      -27≥ΔRSRP\>-28            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_4      -26≥ΔRSRP\>-27            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_5      -25≥ΔRSRP\>-26            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_6      -24≥ΔRSRP\>-25            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_7      -23≥ΔRSRP\>-24            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_8      -22≥ΔRSRP\>-23            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_9      -21≥ΔRSRP\>-22            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_10     -20≥ΔRSRP\>-21            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_11     -19≥ΔRSRP\>-20            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_12     -18≥ΔRSRP\>-19            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_13     -17≥ΔRSRP\>-18            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_14     -16≥ΔRSRP\>-17            dB
  ...              ...                       ...
  DIFFRSRP\_25     -5≥ΔRSRP\>-6              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_26     -4≥ΔRSRP\>-5              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_27     -3≥ΔRSRP\>-4              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_28     -2≥ΔRSRP\>-3              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_29     -1≥ΔRSRP\>-2              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_30     0≥ΔRSRP\>-1               dB
  DIFFRSRP\_31     1≥ΔRSRP\>0                dB
  DIFFRSRP\_32     2≥ΔRSRP\>1                dB
  DIFFRSRP\_33     3≥ΔRSRP\>2                dB
  DIFFRSRP\_34     4≥ΔRSRP\>3                dB
  DIFFRSRP\_35     5≥ΔRSRP\>4                dB
  DIFFRSRP\_36     6≥ΔRSRP\>5                dB
  ...              ...                       ...
  DIFFRSRP\_47     17≥ΔRSRP\>16              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_48     18≥ΔRSRP\>17              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_49     19≥ΔRSRP\>18              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_50     20≥ΔRSRP\>19              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_51     21≥ΔRSRP\>20              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_52     22≥ΔRSRP\>21              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_53     23≥ΔRSRP\>-22             dB
  DIFFRSRP\_54     24≥ΔRSRP\>23              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_55     25≥ΔRSRP\>24              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_56     26≥ΔRSRP\>25              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_57     27≥ΔRSRP\>26              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_58     28≥ΔRSRP\>27              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_59     29≥ΔRSRP\>28              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_60     30≥ΔRSRP\>29              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_61     ΔRSRP\>30                 dB

### 10.1.23 RSTD Measurements

#### 10.1.23.1 Introduction

The requirements in Clause 10.1.23 shall apply, provided the UE has
received *nr-DL-TDOA-RequestLocationInformation* message from LMF via
LPP \[34\] requesting the UE to report one or more DL RSTD measurements
defined in TS 38.215 \[4\].

#### 10.1.23.2 Measurement Accuracy Requirements

The accuracy requirements for RSTD measurement shall be within
±(X+Y+Z+Δ) T~c~.

X is defined in Table 10.1.23.2-1 for AWGN channel and Table 10.1.23.2-3
for fading channel for FR1, provided that the following conditions are
met.

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for RSTD measurements are fulfilled according to Annex
B.2.14 for a corresponding Band for each relevant PRS resource
configured for measurement.

X is defined in Table 10.1.23.2-2 for AWGN channel and Table 10.1.23.2-4
for fading channel for FR2, provided that the following conditions are
met.

> \- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for
> reference sensitivity are fulfilled.
>
> \- Conditions for RSTD measurements are fulfilled according to Annex
> B.2.14 for a corresponding Band for each relevant PRS resource
> configured for measurement.

Note: The requriements for fading channel in this clause are derived
based on TDL-A (30 ns delay spread, 5Hz) and TDL-C (60 ns delay spread,
300 Hz) channel models for FR1 and FR2 respectively.

When UE measures RSTD on PRS resources belonging to different PFLs, then
the RSTD accuracy is defined as the accuracy corresponding to the
largest accuracy value among different PFLs.

When UE measures RSTD on PRS resources belonging to same PFL, Y=32 Tc,
provided that the time offset between the two PRS resource instances
from the reference cell and the neighbor cell, which are used for a
single RSTD estimate, is no greater than 160 ms.

When UE measures RSTD on PRS resources belonging different PFLs, Y=256
Tc, provided that the time offset between the two PRS resource instances
from the reference cell and the neighbor cell, which are used for a
single RSTD estimate, is no greater than 1280 ms.

Z is defined in Table 10.1.23.2-5 for FR1 and Table 10.1.23.2-6 for FR2,
respectively.

Δ is zero for single PFL, and is defined in Table 10.1.23.2-5a for FR1
and Table 10.1.23.2-6a for FR2, respectively, for dual PFL.

Table 10.1.23.2-1: RSTD absolute accuracy in FR1 for AWGN channel

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
|       | PRS   | PRS   | PRS   | PRS   | Io    |       |       |
|       | Ê     | SCS   | band  | res   | ^Not  |       |       |
|       | s/Iot |       | width | ource | e\ 3^ |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | repet | range |       |       |
|       |       |       | ^Not  | ition |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | e\ 1^ | ($\ma |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | thbf{ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | T}_{\ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | text{ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rep}} |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ^{\te |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | xt{PR |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | S}}\m |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | athbf |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | {*}\m |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | athbf |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | {L}_{ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \text |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | {PRS} |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | }\mat |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | hbf{/ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | }\mat |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | hbf{K |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | }_{\t |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ext{c |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | omb}} |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ^{\te |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | xt{PR |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | S}}$) |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |
|       |       |       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |
|       |       |       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |
|       |       |       |       |       | band  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | g     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | roups |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | e\ 4^ |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Tc    | dB    | kHz   | RB    |       |       | dB    | dBm/B |
| ^Not  |       |       |       |       |       | m/SCS | W~Cha |
| e\ 5^ |       |       |       |       |       |       | nnel~ |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 132   | (PRS  | 15    | ≥24   | ≥4    | N     | -127  | -50   |
|       | Ês    |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       | /Iot) |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       | ~ref~ |       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |
|       | ≥-6dB |       |       |       | N     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |
|       | (PRS  |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       | Ês    |       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |
|       | /Iot) |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | *~i~* |       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |
|       | ≥     |       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |
|       | -13dB |       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 126.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T | -126  | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -     | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD | 125.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -125  | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 124.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -124  | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_G, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 123.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 98    |       |       | ≥52   | ≥1    | Note  | Note  | Note  |
|       |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 42    |       |       | ≥104  | ≥1    | Note  | Note  | Note  |
|       |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 75    |       | 30    | ≥24   | ≥ 4   | N     | -124  | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | N     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 123.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T | -123  | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -     | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD | 122.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -122  | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 121.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -121  | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_G, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 48    |       |       | ≥ 48  | ≥ 1   | Note  | Note  | Note  |
|       |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 24    |       |       | ≥ 132 | ≥ 1   | Note  | Note  | Note  |
|       |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 50    |       | 60    | ≥ 24  | ≥ 4   | N     | -121  | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | N     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -     | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -119  | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -118  | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_G, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 24    |       |       | ≥ 64  | ≥ 1   | Note  | Note  | Note  |
|       |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 10    |       |       | ≥ 132 | ≥ 1   | Note  | Note  | Note  |
|       |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| PRS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| idth, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| which |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| PRS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| idths |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| refe  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rence |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| res   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ource |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mea   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sured |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| neig  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hbour |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| res   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ource |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| i.    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| PRS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| res   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ource |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| epeti |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| among |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| refe  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rence |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| res   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ource |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mea   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sured |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| neig  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hbour |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| res   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ource |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| i.    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| $T    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| _{\te |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| xt{re |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| p}}^{ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \text |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| {PRS} |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| },\ L |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| _{\te |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| xt{PR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| S}}\  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ,K_{\ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| text{ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| comb} |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| }^{\t |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ext{P |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| RS}}$ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| confi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| gured |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| by    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| h     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| igher |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| layer |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| para  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| meter |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| *dl   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| -PRS- |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Resou |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rceRe |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| petit |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ionFa |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ctor, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dl    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| -PRS- |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NumSy |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mbols |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dl-   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| PRS-C |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ombSi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| zeNde |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in TS |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 7.355 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \[    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 34\], |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| resp  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ectiv |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ely.* |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 5: Tc |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| basic |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| iming |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| unit  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in TS |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 8.211 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| [6\]. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 6:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| with  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| PRS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| width |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sma   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| llest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| RB    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SCS.  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 7:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

Table 10.1.23.2-2: RSTD absolute accuracy in FR2 for AWGN channel

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| A       | Con     |         |         |         |         |         |
| ccuracy | ditions |         |         |         |         |         |
+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+
|         | PRS     | PRS SCS | PRS     | PRS     | Io      |         |
|         | Ês/Iot  |         | ba      | r       | ^N      |         |
|         |         |         | ndwidth | esource | ote\ 3^ |         |
|         |         |         |         | rep     | range   |         |
|         |         |         | ^N      | etition |         |         |
|         |         |         | ote\ 1^ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | (       |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | $\mathb |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | f{T}_{\ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | text{re |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | p}}^{\t |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | ext{PRS |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | }}\math |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | bf{*}\m |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | athbf{L |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | }_{\tex |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | t{PRS}} |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | \mathbf |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | {/}\mat |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | hbf{K}_ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | {\text{ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | comb}}^ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | {\text{ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | PRS}}$) |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | ^N      |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | ote\ 2^ |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         |         |         |         | Minimum | Maximum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Io      | Io      |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Tc      | dB      | kHz     | RB      |         | dBm/SCS | d       |
| ^N      |         |         |         |         |         | Bm/BW~C |
| ote\ 4^ |         |         |         |         |         | hannel~ |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 35      | (PRS    | 60      | ≥ 24    | ≥ 4     | Same    | -50     |
|         | Ês/Io   |         |         |         | value   |         |
|         | t)~ref~ |         |         |         | as      |         |
|         | ≥-6dB   |         |         |         | PRS\_RP |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | in      |         |
|         | (PRS    |         |         |         | Table   |         |
|         | Ês/Io   |         |         |         | B.      |         |
|         | t)*~i~* |         |         |         | 2.14-2, |         |
|         | ≥-13dB  |         |         |         | ac      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | cording |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | to UE   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class,  |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | op      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | erating |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | band    |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | angle   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | of      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | arrival |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 24      |         |         | ≥ 64    | ≥ 1     | Note 5  | Note 5  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 11      |         |         | ≥ 132   | ≥ 1     | Note 5  | Note 5  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 24      |         | 120     | ≥ 32    | ≥ 4     | Same    | -50     |
|         |         |         |         |         | value   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | as      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | PRS\_RP |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | in      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Table   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | B.      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 2.14-2, |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | ac      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | cording |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | to UE   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class,  |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | op      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | erating |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | band    |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | angle   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | of      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | arrival |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 13      |         |         | ≥ 64    | ≥ 1     | Note 5  | Note 5  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 6       |         |         | ≥ 128   | ≥ 1     | Note 5  | Note 5  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| NOTE 1: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Minimum |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| PRS     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ban     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| dwidth, |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| which   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| minimum |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of the  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| PRS     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ban     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| dwidths |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of the  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| re      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ference |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| r       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| esource |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and the |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| m       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| easured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ne      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ighbour |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| r       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| esource |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| i.      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NOTE 2: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Minimum |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| number  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of PRS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| r       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| esource |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| repe    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| titions |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| among   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| re      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ference |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| r       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| esource |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and the |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| m       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| easured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ne      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ighbour |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| r       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| esource |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| i.      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| $T_{\te |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| xt{rep} |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| }^{\tex |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| t{PRS}} |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ,\ L_{\ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| text{PR |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| S}}\ ,K |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| _{\text |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| {comb}} |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ^{\text |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| {PRS}}$ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| are     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| by      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| higher  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| layer   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| pa      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rameter |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| *dl-P   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| RS-Reso |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urceRep |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| etition |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Factor, |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| dl-     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| PRS-Num |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Symbols |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| dl      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| -PRS-Co |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| mbSizeN |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| defined |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in TS   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 37.355  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| \[34\], |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| respect |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ively*. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NOTE 3: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Io is   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| assumed |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| to have |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| c       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| onstant |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| EPRE    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| across  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ban     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| dwidth. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NOTE 4: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Tc is   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| basic   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| timing  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| unit    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| defined |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in TS   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 38.211  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| \[6\].  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NOTE 5: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| The     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| same    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bands   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and the |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| same Io |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ditions |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| each    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| band    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| apply   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| this    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| requ    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| irement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| as for  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| corres  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ponding |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| requ    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| irement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| with    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the PRS |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ba      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ndwidth |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of the  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| s       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| mallest |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| RB      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| number  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for the |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| corres  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ponding |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SCS.    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NOTE 6: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Void    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

Table 10.1.23.2-3: RSTD absolute accuracy in FR1 for fading channel

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
|       | PRS   | PRS   | PRS   | PRS   | Io    |       |       |
|       | Ê     | SCS   | band  | res   | ^Not  |       |       |
|       | s/Iot |       | width | ource | e\ 3^ |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | repet | range |       |       |
|       |       |       | ^Not  | ition |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | e\ 1^ | ($\ma |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | thbf{ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | T}_{\ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | text{ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | rep}} |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ^{\te |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | xt{PR |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | S}}\m |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | athbf |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | {*}\m |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | athbf |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | {L}_{ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \text |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | {PRS} |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | }\mat |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | hbf{/ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | }\mat |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | hbf{K |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | }_{\t |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ext{c |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | omb}} |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ^{\te |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | xt{PR |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | S}}$) |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |
|       |       |       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |
|       |       |       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |
|       |       |       |       |       | band  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | g     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | roups |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | e\ 4^ |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Tc    | dB    | kHz   | RB    |       |       | dB    | dBm/B |
| ^Not  |       |       |       |       |       | m/SCS | W~Cha |
| e\ 5^ |       |       |       |       |       |       | nnel~ |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 247   | (PRS  | 15    | ≥ 24  | ≥ 4   | N     | -127  | -50   |
|       | Ês    |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       | /Iot) |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       | ~ref~ |       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |
|       | ≥-6dB |       |       |       | N     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |
|       | (PRS  |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       | Ês    |       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |
|       | /Iot) |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | *~i~* |       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |
|       | ≥     |       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |
|       | -13dB |       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 126.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T | -126  | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -     | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD | 125.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -125  | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 124.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -124  | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_G, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 123.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 140   |       |       | ≥ 52  | ≥ 1   | Note  | Note  | Note  |
|       |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 86    |       |       | ≥ 104 | ≥ 1   | Note  | Note  | Note  |
|       |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 118   |       | 30    | ≥ 24  | ≥ 4   | N     | -124  | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | N     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 123.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T | -123  | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -     | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD | 122.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -122  | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 121.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -121  | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_G, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 109   |       |       | ≥ 48  | ≥ 1   | Note  | Note  | Note  |
|       |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 28    |       |       | ≥ 132 | ≥ 1   | Note  | Note  | Note  |
|       |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 147   |       | 60    | ≥ 24  | ≥ 4   | N     | -121  | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | N     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -     | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -119  | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -118  | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_G, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -50   |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 27    |       |       | ≥ 64  | ≥ 1   | Note  | Note  | Note  |
|       |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 21    |       |       | ≥ 132 | ≥ 1   | Note  | Note  | Note  |
|       |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| PRS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| idth, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| which |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| PRS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| idths |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| refe  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rence |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| res   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ource |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mea   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sured |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| neig  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hbour |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| res   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ource |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| i.    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| PRS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| res   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ource |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| epeti |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| among |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| refe  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rence |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| res   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ource |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mea   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sured |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| neig  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hbour |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| res   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ource |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| i.    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| $T    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| _{\te |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| xt{re |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| p}}^{ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \text |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| {PRS} |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| },\ L |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| _{\te |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| xt{PR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| S}}\  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ,K_{\ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| text{ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| comb} |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| }^{\t |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ext{P |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| RS}}$ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| confi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| gured |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| by    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| h     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| igher |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| layer |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| para  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| meter |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| *dl   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| -PRS- |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Resou |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rceRe |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| petit |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ionFa |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ctor, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dl    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| -PRS- |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NumSy |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mbols |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dl-   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| PRS-C |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ombSi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| zeNde |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in TS |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 7.355 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \[    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 34\], |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| resp  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ectiv |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ely.* |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 5: Tc |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| basic |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| iming |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| unit  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in TS |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 8.211 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| [6\]. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 6:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| with  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| PRS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| width |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sma   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| llest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| RB    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SCS.  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 7:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Void  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

Table 10.1.23.2-4: RSTD absolute accuracy in FR2 for fading channel

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| A       | Con     |         |         |         |         |         |
| ccuracy | ditions |         |         |         |         |         |
+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+
|         | PRS     | PRS SCS | PRS     | PRS     | **Io    |         |
|         | Ês/Iot  |         | ba      | r       | ^N      |         |
|         |         |         | ndwidth | esource | ote\ 3^ |         |
|         |         |         |         | rep     | range** |         |
|         |         |         | ^N      | etition |         |         |
|         |         |         | ote\ 1^ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | (       |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | $\mathb |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | f{T}_{\ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | text{re |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | p}}^{\t |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | ext{PRS |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | }}\math |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | bf{*}\m |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | athbf{L |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | }_{\tex |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | t{PRS}} |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | \mathbf |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | {/}\mat |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | hbf{K}_ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | {\text{ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | comb}}^ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | {\text{ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | PRS}}$) |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | ^N      |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | ote\ 2^ |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         |         |         |         | Minimum | Maximum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Io      | Io      |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Tc      | dB      | kHz     | RB      |         | dBm/SCS | d       |
| ^N      |         |         |         |         |         | Bm/BW~C |
| ote\ 4^ |         |         |         |         |         | hannel~ |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 83      | (PRS    | 60      | ≥ 24    | ≥ 4     | Same    | -50     |
|         | Ês/Io   |         |         |         | value   |         |
|         | t)~ref~ |         |         |         | as      |         |
|         | ≥-6dB   |         |         |         | PRS\_RP |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | in      |         |
|         | (PRS    |         |         |         | Table   |         |
|         | Ês/Io   |         |         |         | B.      |         |
|         | t)*~i~* |         |         |         | 2.14-2, |         |
|         | ≥-13dB  |         |         |         | ac      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | cording |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | to UE   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class,  |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | op      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | erating |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | band    |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | angle   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | of      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | arrival |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 64      |         |         | ≥ 64    | ≥ 1     | Note 5  | Note 5  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 46      |         |         | ≥ 132   | ≥ 1     | Note 5  | Note 5  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 48      |         | 120     | ≥ 32    | ≥ 4     | Same    | -50     |
|         |         |         |         |         | value   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | as      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | PRS\_RP |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | in      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Table   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | B.      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 2.14-2, |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | ac      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | cording |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | to UE   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class,  |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | op      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | erating |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | band    |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | angle   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | of      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | arrival |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 54      |         |         | ≥ 64    | ≥ 1     | Note 5  | Note 5  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 36      |         |         | ≥ 128   | ≥ 1     | Note 5  | Note 5  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| NOTE 1: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Minimum |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| PRS     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ban     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| dwidth, |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| which   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| minimum |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of the  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| PRS     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ban     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| dwidths |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of the  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| re      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ference |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| r       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| esource |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and the |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| m       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| easured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ne      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ighbour |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| r       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| esource |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| i.      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NOTE 2: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Minimum |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| number  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of PRS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| r       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| esource |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| repe    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| titions |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| among   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| re      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ference |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| r       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| esource |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and the |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| m       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| easured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ne      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ighbour |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| r       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| esource |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| i.      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| $T_{\te |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| xt{rep} |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| }^{\tex |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| t{PRS}} |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ,\ L_{\ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| text{PR |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| S}}\ ,K |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| _{\text |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| {comb}} |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ^{\text |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| {PRS}}$ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| are     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| by      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| higher  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| layer   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| pa      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rameter |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| *dl-P   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| RS-Reso |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urceRep |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| etition |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Factor, |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| dl-     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| PRS-Num |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Symbols |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| dl      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| -PRS-Co |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| mbSizeN |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| defined |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in TS   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 37.355  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| \[34\], |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| respect |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ively*. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NOTE 3: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Io is   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| assumed |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| to have |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| c       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| onstant |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| EPRE    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| across  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ban     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| dwidth. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NOTE 4: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Tc is   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| basic   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| timing  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| unit    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| defined |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in TS   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 38.211  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| \[6\].  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NOTE 5: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| The     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| same    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bands   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and the |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| same Io |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ditions |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| each    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| band    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| apply   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| this    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| requ    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| irement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| as for  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| corres  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ponding |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| requ    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| irement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| with    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the PRS |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ba      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ndwidth |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of the  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| s       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| mallest |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| RB      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| number  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for the |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| corres  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ponding |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SCS.    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NOTE 6: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Void    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

Table 10.1.23.2-5: Margin for RSTD measurement accuracy in FR1

  PRS BW (RB number)   Margin (Tc)               
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- --------
  SCS=15kHz            SCS=30kHz     SCS=60kHz   
  ≥ 24                 N/A           N/A         120
  ≥ 52                 ≥ 24          N/A         72
  ≥ 104                ≥ 48          ≥ 24        **36**
  N/A                  ≥ 132         ≥ 64        **16**
  N/A                  N/A           ≥ 132       12

Table 10.1.23.2-5a: Margin Δ for RSTD measurement accuracy in FR1

  PRS BW (RB number)   Margin (Tc)               
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- --------
  SCS=15kHz            SCS=30kHz     SCS=60kHz   
  ≥ 24                 N/A           N/A         128
  ≥ 52                 ≥ 24          N/A         64
  ≥ 104                ≥ 48          ≥ 24        **32**
  N/A                  ≥ 132         ≥ 64        **16**
  N/A                  N/A           ≥ 132       8

Table 10.1.23.2-6: Margin for RSTD measurement accuracy in FR2

  PRS BW (RB number)   Margin (Tc)   
  -------------------- ------------- --------
  SCS=60kHz            SCS=120kHz    
  ≥ 24                 N/A           72
  ≥ 64                 ≥ 32          **32**
  ≥ 132                ≥ 64          **16**
  N/A                  ≥ 128         12

Table 10.1.23.2-6a: Margin Δ for RSTD measurement accuracy in FR2

  PRS BW (RB number)   Margin (Tc)   
  -------------------- ------------- --------
  SCS=60kHz            SCS=120kHz    
  ≥ 24                 N/A           32
  ≥ 64                 ≥ 32          **16**
  ≥ 132                ≥ 64          **8**
  N/A                  ≥ 128         4

#### 10.1.23.3 Report mapping

##### 10.1.23.3.1 Absolute DL RSTD Measurement Reporting

The reporting range for the DL RSTD measurement is defined from
-985024×T~c~ to 985024×T~c~ with the resolution step of 2*^k^*×T~c~,
where

T~c~ is defined in TS 38.211 \[6\],

*k~min~*≤*k*≤*k~max~*,

*k~min~*=\[2\] and *k~max~*=5, when configured PRS resource of at least
one of the reference cell and neighbor cell measured for the RSTD
measurement is in FR1,

*k~min~*=0 and *k~max~*=5, when configured PRS resource of both the
reference cell and neighbor cell measured for the RSTD measurement are
in FR2,

*k≥* *timingReportingGranularityFactor* \[34\] configured by LMF via LPP
for the RSTD measurement.

The measurement report mapping for different *k* values are specified in
Tables 10.1.23.3.1-1 − 10.1.23.3.1-6.

Table 10.1.23.3.1-1: Report mapping for *k*=0

  -------------------------- --------------------------- ------
  Reported Quantity Value,   Measured Quantity Value,    Unit
  RSTD\_i                    RSTD                        
  RSTD\_0000000              RSTD \< -985024             T~c~
  RSTD\_0000001              -985024 ≤ RSTD \< -985023   T~c~
  RSTD\_0000002              -985023 ≤ RSTD \< -985022   T~c~
  ...                        ...                         ...
  RSTD\_0985024              -1 ≤ RSTD \< 0              T~c~
  RSTD\_0985025              0 ≤ RSTD \< 1               T~c~
  ...                        ...                         ...
  RSTD\_1970047              985022 ≤ RSTD \< 985023     T~c~
  RSTD\_1970048              985023 ≤ RSTD \< 985024     T~c~
  RSTD\_1970049              985024 ≤ RSTD               T~c~
  -------------------------- --------------------------- ------

Table 10.1.23.3.1-2: Report mapping for *k*=1

  -------------------------- --------------------------- ------
  Reported Quantity Value,   Measured Quantity Value,    Unit
  RSTD\_i                    RSTD                        
  RSTD\_000000               RSTD \< -985024             T~c~
  RSTD\_000001               -985024 ≤ RSTD \< -985022   T~c~
  RSTD\_000002               -985022 ≤ RSTD \< -985020   T~c~
  ...                        ...                         ...
  RSTD\_492512               -2 ≤ RSTD \< 0              T~c~
  RSTD\_492513               0 ≤ RSTD \< 2               T~c~
  ...                        ...                         ...
  RSTD\_**985023**           985020 ≤ RSTD \< 985022     T~c~
  RSTD\_**985024**           985022 ≤ RSTD \< 985024     T~c~
  RSTD\_**985025**           985024 ≤ RSTD               T~c~
  -------------------------- --------------------------- ------

Table 10.1.23.3.1-3: Report mapping for *k*=2

  -------------------------- --------------------------- ------
  Reported Quantity Value,   Measured Quantity Value,    Unit
  RSTD\_i                    RSTD                        
  RSTD\_000000               RSTD \< -985024             T~c~
  RSTD\_000001               -985024 ≤ RSTD \< -985020   T~c~
  RSTD\_000002               -985020 ≤ RSTD \< -985016   T~c~
  ...                        ...                         ...
  RSTD\_246256               -4 ≤ RSTD \< 0              T~c~
  RSTD\_246257               0 ≤ RSTD \< 4               T~c~
  ...                        ...                         ...
  RSTD\_**492511**           985016 ≤ RSTD \< 985020     T~c~
  RSTD\_**492512**           985020 ≤ RSTD \< 985024     T~c~
  RSTD\_**492513**           985024 ≤ RSTD               T~c~
  -------------------------- --------------------------- ------

Table 10.1.23.3.1-4: Report mapping for *k*=3

  ------------------------- --------------------------- ------
  Reported Quantity Value   Measured Quantity Value,    Unit
  RSTD\_i                   RSTD                        
  RSTD\_000000              RSTD \< -985024             T~c~
  RSTD\_000001              -985024 ≤ RSTD \< -985016   T~c~
  RSTD\_000002              -985016 ≤ RSTD \< -985008   T~c~
  ...                       ...                         ...
  RSTD\_123128              -8 ≤ RSTD \< 0              T~c~
  RSTD\_123129              0 ≤ RSTD \< 8               T~c~
  ...                       ...                         ...
  RSTD\_**246255**          985008 ≤ RSTD \< 985016     T~c~
  RSTD\_**246256**          985016 ≤ RSTD \< 985024     T~c~
  RSTD\_246257              985024 ≤ RSTD               T~c~
  ------------------------- --------------------------- ------

Table 10.1.23.3.1-5: Report mapping for *k*=4

  -------------------------- --------------------------- ------
  Reported Quantity Value,   Measured Quantity Value,    Unit
  RSTD\_i                    RSTD                        
  RSTD\_000000               RSTD \< -985024             T~c~
  RSTD\_000001               -985024 ≤ RSTD \< -985008   T~c~
  RSTD\_000002               -985008 ≤ RSTD \< -984992   T~c~
  ...                        ...                         ...
  RSTD\_061564               -16 ≤ RSTD \< 0             T~c~
  RSTD\_061565               0 ≤ RSTD \< 16              T~c~
  ...                        ...                         ...
  RSTD\_123127               984992 ≤ RSTD \< 985008     T~c~
  RSTD\_123128               985008 ≤ RSTD \< 985024     T~c~
  RSTD\_123129               985024 ≤ RSTD               T~c~
  -------------------------- --------------------------- ------

Table 10.1.23.3.1-6: Report mapping for *k*=5

  -------------------------- --------------------------- ------
  Reported Quantity Value,   Measured Quantity Value,    Unit
  RSTD\_i                    RSTD                        
  RSTD\_00000                RSTD \< -985024             T~c~
  RSTD\_00001                -985024 ≤ RSTD \< -984992   T~c~
  RSTD\_00002                -984992 ≤ RSTD \< -984960   T~c~
  ...                        ...                         ...
  RSTD\_30782                -32 ≤ RSTD \< 0             T~c~
  RSTD\_30783                0 ≤ RSTD \< 32              T~c~
  ...                        ...                         ...
  RSTD\_61563                984960 ≤ RSTD \< 984992     T~c~
  RSTD\_61564                984992 ≤ RSTD \< 985024     T~c~
  RSTD\_61565                985024 ≤ RSTD               T~c~
  -------------------------- --------------------------- ------

##### 10.1.23.3.2 Differential Reporting for DL RSTD Measurement

A first DL RSTD measurement is reported by means of differential
reporting, i.e. as ∆RSTD, relative to a second DL RSTD measurement
(RSTD2), provided that:

\- the absolute measured quantity value of the second DL RSTD
measurement (RSTD2) is not larger than the absolute measured quantity
value of the first DL RSTD measurement (RSTD1), i.e.,
∆RSTD=RSTD1-RSTD2≥0, and

\- the absolute value of the second DL RSTD measurement (RSTD2) is
reported together with ∆RSTD for the first DL RSTD measurement.

The reporting range for differential reporting ∆RSTD of the first DL
RSTD measurement is defined from 0 up to 8191×T~c~ with the resolution
step of 2*^k^*×T~c~, where

T~c~ is defined in TS 38.211 \[6\],

*k~min~*≤*k*≤*k~max~*,

*k~min~*=\[2\] and *k~max~*=5, when configured PRS resource of at least
one of the reference cell and neighbor cell measured for the first RSTD
measurement or second RSTD measurement is in FR1,

*k~min~*=0 and *k~max~*=5, when configured PRS resource of both the
reference cell and neighbor cell measured for both of the first RSTD
measurement and the second RSTD measurement are in FR2,

*k≥* *timingReportingGranularityFactor* \[34\] configured by LMF via LPP
for the RSTD measurement.

The measurement report mapping for different *k* values are specified in
Tables 10.1.23.3.2-1 − 10.1.23.3.2-6.

Table 10.1.23.3.2-1: Report mapping for *k*=0

+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| Reported Quantity Value, | ∆RSTD = RSTD1 **−** RSTD2 | Unit |
|                          |                           |      |
| DIFFRSTD\_i              |                           |      |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_0000           | 0 ≤ ∆RSTD \< 1            | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_0001           | 1 ≤ ∆RSTD \< 2            | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_0002           | 2 ≤ ∆RSTD \< 3            | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| ...                      | ...                       | ...  |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_8189           | 8189 ≤ ∆RSTD \< 8190      | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_8190           | 8190 ≤ ∆RSTD \< 8191      | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_8191           | 8191 ≤ ∆RSTD              | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+

Table 10.1.23.3.2-2: Report mapping for *k*=1

+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| Reported Quantity Value, | ∆RSTD = RSTD1 **−** RSTD2 | Unit |
|                          |                           |      |
| DIFFRSTD\_i              |                           |      |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_0000           | 0 ≤ ∆RSTD \< 2            | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_0001           | 2 ≤ ∆RSTD \< 4            | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_0002           | 4 ≤ ∆RSTD \< 6            | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| ...                      | ...                       | ...  |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_4093           | 8186 ≤ ∆RSTD \< 8188      | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_4094           | 8188 ≤ ∆RSTD \< 8190      | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_4095           | 8190 ≤ ∆RSTD              | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+

Table 10.1.23.3.2-3: Report mapping for *k*=2

+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| Reported Quantity Value, | ∆RSTD = RSTD1 **−** RSTD2 | Unit |
|                          |                           |      |
| DIFFRSTD\_i              |                           |      |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_0000           | 0 ≤ ∆RSTD \< 4            | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_0001           | 4 ≤ ∆RSTD \< 8            | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_0002           | 8 ≤ ∆RSTD \< 12           | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| ...                      | ...                       | ...  |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_2045           | 8180 ≤ ∆RSTD \< 8184      | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_2046           | 8184 ≤ ∆RSTD \< 8188      | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_2047           | 8188 ≤ ∆RSTD              | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+

Table 10.1.23.3.2-4: Report mapping for *k*=3

+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| Reported Quantity Value, | ∆RSTD = RSTD1 **−** RSTD2 | Unit |
|                          |                           |      |
| DIFFRSTD\_i              |                           |      |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_0000           | 0 ≤ ∆RSTD \< 8            | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_0001           | 8 ≤ ∆RSTD \< 16           | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_0002           | 16 ≤ ∆RSTD \< 24          | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| ...                      | ...                       | ...  |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_1021           | 8168 ≤ ∆RSTD \< 8176      | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_1022           | 8176 ≤ ∆RSTD \< 8184      | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_1023           | 8184 ≤ ∆RSTD              | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+

Table 10.1.23.3.2-5: Report mapping for *k*=4

+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| Reported Quantity Value, | ∆RSTD = RSTD1 **−** RSTD2 | Unit |
|                          |                           |      |
| DIFFRSTD\_i              |                           |      |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_000            | 0 ≤ ∆RSTD \< 16           | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_001            | 16 ≤ ∆RSTD \< 32          | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_002            | 32 ≤ ∆RSTD \< 48          | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| ...                      | ...                       | ...  |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_509            | 8144 ≤ ∆RSTD \< 8160      | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_510            | 8160 ≤ ∆RSTD \< 8176      | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_511            | 8176 ≤ ∆RSTD              | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+

Table 10.1.23.3.2-6: Report mapping for *k*=5

+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| Reported Quantity Value, | ∆RSTD = RSTD1 **−** RSTD2 | Unit |
|                          |                           |      |
| DIFFRSTD\_i              |                           |      |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_000            | 0 ≤ ∆RSTD \< 32           | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_001            | 32 ≤ ∆RSTD \< 64          | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_002            | 64 ≤ ∆RSTD \< 96          | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| ...                      | ...                       | ...  |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_253            | 8096 ≤ ∆RSTD \< 8128      | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_254            | 8128 ≤ ∆RSTD \< 8160      | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+
| DIFFRSTD\_255            | 8160 ≤ ∆RSTD              | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+------+

##### 10.1.23.3.3 Additional Path Report Mapping for DL RSTD

The reporting range for the additional path reporting for an RSTD
measurement is defined up to the range from -8175×T~c~ to 8175×T~c~ with
the resolution step of 2*^k^*×T~c~, where

T~c~ is defined in TS 38.211 \[6\],

*k~min~*≤*k*≤*k~max~*,

*k~min~*=\[2\] and *k~max~*=5, when configured PRS resource of at least
one of the reference cell and neighbor cell measured for the RSTD
measurement is in FR1,

*k~min~*=0 and *k~max~*=5, when configured PRS resource of both the
reference cell and neighbor cell measured for the RSTD measurement are
in FR2,

*k≥* *timingReportingGranularityFactor* \[34\] configured by LMF via LPP
for the RSTD measurement.

The UE can report the timing of up to two additional paths with respect
to the path timing determining the RSTD measurement.

The report mappings for different *k* values are specified in Tables
10.1.23.3.3-1 − 10.1.23.3.3-6.

Table 10.1.23.3.3-1: Report mapping for *k*=0

+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| Reported Quantity Value, | Measured Quantity Value, | Unit |
|                          |                          |      |
| path\_i                  | ∆path                    |      |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
|                          |                          |      |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_00000              | ∆path \< -8175           | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_00001              | -8175 ≤ ∆path \< -8174   | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_00002              | -8174 ≤ ∆path \< -8173   | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| ...                      | ...                      | ...  |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_08175              | -1 ≤ ∆path \< 0          | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_08176              | 0 ≤ ∆path \< 1           | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| ...                      | ...                      | ...  |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_ 16349             | 8173 ≤ ∆path \< 8174     | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_ 16350             | 8174 ≤ ∆path \< 8175     | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_ 16351             | 8175 ≤ ∆path             | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+

Table 10.1.23.3.3-2: Report mapping for *k*=1

+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| Reported Quantity Value, | Measured Quantity Value, | Unit |
|                          |                          |      |
| path\_i                  | ∆path                    |      |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_0000               | ∆path \< -8175           | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_0001               | -8175 ≤ ∆path \< -8173   | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_0002               | -8173 ≤ ∆path \< -8171   | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| ...                      | ...                      | ...  |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_4088               | -1 ≤ ∆path \< 1          | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| ...                      | ...                      | ...  |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_**8174**           | 8171 ≤ ∆path \< 8173     | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_**8175**           | 8173 ≤ ∆path \< 8175     | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_**8176**           | 8175 ≤ ∆path             | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+

Table 10.1.23.3.3-3: Report mapping for *k*=2

+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| Reported Quantity Value, | Measured Quantity Value, | Unit |
|                          |                          |      |
| path\_i                  | ∆path                    |      |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_0000               | ∆path \< -8174           | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_0001               | -8174 ≤ ∆path \< -8170   | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_0002               | -8170 ≤ ∆path \< -8166   | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| ...                      | ...                      | ...  |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_2044               | -2 ≤ ∆path \< 2          | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| ...                      | ...                      | ...  |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_**4086**           | 8166 ≤ ∆path \< 8170     | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_**4087**           | 8170 ≤ ∆path \< 8174     | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_**4088**           | 8174 ≤ ∆path             | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+

Table 10.1.23.3.3-4: Report mapping for *k*=3

+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| Reported Quantity Value, | Measured Quantity Value, | Unit |
|                          |                          |      |
| path\_i                  | ∆path                    |      |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_0000               | ∆path \< -8172           | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_0001               | -8172 ≤ ∆path \< -8164   | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_0002               | -8164 ≤ ∆path \< -8156   | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| ...                      | ...                      | ...  |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_1022               | -4 ≤ ∆path \< 4          | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| ...                      | ...                      | ...  |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_**2042**           | 8156 ≤ ∆path \< 8164     | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_**2043**           | 8164 ≤ ∆path \< 8172     | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_**2044**           | 8172 ≤ ∆path             | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+

Table 10.1.23.3.3-5: Report mapping for *k*=4

+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| Reported Quantity Value, | Measured Quantity Value, | Unit |
|                          |                          |      |
| path\_i                  | ∆path                    |      |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_0000               | ∆path \< -8168           | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_0001               | -8168 ≤ ∆path \< -8152   | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_0002               | -8152 ≤ ∆path \< -8136   | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| ...                      | ...                      | ...  |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_511                | -8 ≤ ∆path \< 8          | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| ...                      | ...                      | ...  |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_**1020**           | 8136 ≤ ∆path \< 8152     | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_**1021**           | 8152 ≤ ∆path \< 8168     | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_**1022**           | 8168 ≤ ∆path             | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+

Table 10.1.23.3.3-6: Report mapping for *k*=5

+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| Reported Quantity Value, | Measured Quantity Value, | Unit |
|                          |                          |      |
| path\_i                  | ∆path                    |      |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_000                | ∆path \< -8160           | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_001                | -8160 ≤ ∆path \< -8128   | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_002                | -8128 ≤ ∆path \< -8096   | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| ...                      | ...                      | ...  |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_256                | 0 ≤ ∆path \< 32          | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| ...                      | ...                      | ...  |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_**509**            | 8096 ≤ ∆path \< 8128     | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_**510**            | 8128 ≤ ∆path \< 8160     | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_**511**            | 8160 ≤ ∆path             | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+

### 10.1.24 PRS-RSRP Measurements

#### 10.1.24.1 Introduction

The requirements in Clause 10.1.24 shall apply, provided the UE has
received *nr-DL-TDOA-RequestLocationInformation* or
*nr-Multi-RTT-RequestLocationInformation* or
*nr-DL-AoD-RequestLocationInformation* message from LMF via LPP \[34\]
requesting the UE to report one or more DL PRS-RSRP measurements defined
in TS 38.215 \[4\].

#### 10.1.24.2 Measurement Accuracy Requirements

##### 10.1.24.2.1 Absolute PRS RSRP accuracy

The absolute accuracy requirements for PRS-RSRP measurement for FR1
defined in Table 10.1.24.2.1-1 are valid under the following conditions:

Conditions defined in 38.101-1 Clause 7.3 for reference sensitivity are
fulfilled.

> PRP 1,2\|~dBm~ according to Annex B.2.14 for a corresponding Band

The absolute accuracy requirements for PRS-RSRP measurement for FR2
defined in Table 10.1.24.2.1-2 are valid under the following conditions:

Conditions defined in 38.101-2 Clause 7.3 for reference sensitivity are
fulfilled.

> PRP 1,2\|~dBm~ according to Annex B.2.14 for a corresponding Band

Table 10.1.24.2.1-1: PRS-RSRP absolute accuracy for FR1

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Accuracy</th>
<th>Conditions</th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Normal condition</td>
<td>Extreme condition</td>
<td>PRS Ês/Iot</td>
<td>PRS BW</td>
<td><p><strong>Repetition factor</strong></p>
<p><strong>(</strong><span class="math inline"><strong>T</strong><sub>rep</sub><sup>PRS</sup><strong>*</strong><strong>L</strong><sub>PRS</sub><strong>/</strong><strong>K</strong><sub>comb</sub><sup>PRS</sup><strong>)</strong></span></p></td>
<td>Io <sup>Note 7</sup> range</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR operating band groups <sup>Note 8</sup></td>
<td><p><strong>Minimum<br />
Io <sup>Note 1</sup></strong></p>
<p>dBm / SCS<sub>PRS</sub></p></td>
<td>Maximum<br />
Io</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>dB</td>
<td>dB</td>
<td>dB</td>
<td>PRB</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td>dBm / SCS<sub>PRS</sub></td>
<td>dBm/BW<sub>Channel</sub></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><strong>dBm/15kHz</strong> <sup>Note 6</sup></td>
<td><strong>dBm/30kHz</strong> <sup>Note 6</sup></td>
<td><strong>dBm/60kHz</strong> <sup>Note 6</sup></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>±3.5</td>
<td>±8</td>
<td>≥-3dB</td>
<td>≥24</td>
<td>All</td>
<td>NR_FDD_FR1_A, NR_TDD_FR1_A, NR_SDL_FR1_A</td>
<td>-127</td>
<td>-124</td>
<td>-121</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR_FDD_FR1_B</td>
<td>-126.5</td>
<td>-123.5</td>
<td>-120.5</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR_TDD_FR1_C</td>
<td>-126</td>
<td>-123</td>
<td>-120</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR_FDD_FR1_D, NR_TDD_FR1_D</td>
<td>-125.5</td>
<td>-122.5</td>
<td>-119.5</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR_FDD_FR1_E, NR_TDD_FR1_E</td>
<td>-125</td>
<td>-122</td>
<td>-119</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR_FDD_FR1_F</td>
<td>-124.5</td>
<td>-121.5</td>
<td>-118.5</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR_FDD_FR1_G, NR_TDD_FR1_G</td>
<td>-124</td>
<td>-121</td>
<td>-118</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR_FDD_FR1_H</td>
<td>-123.5</td>
<td>-120.5</td>
<td>-117.5</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Note 4</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Note 4</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>±8.5</td>
<td>±13</td>
<td>≥-13dB</td>
<td>24 ≤ BW ≤ 52</td>
<td>All</td>
<td>Note 4</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>±6</td>
<td>±10.5</td>
<td></td>
<td>52&lt; BW≤ 104</td>
<td>All</td>
<td>Note 4</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>±4.5</td>
<td>±9</td>
<td></td>
<td>BW &gt;104</td>
<td>All</td>
<td>Note 4</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>NOTE 1: This minimum Io condition is expressed as the average Io per RE over all REs in an OFDM symbol.</p>
<p>NOTE 2: Void.</p>
<p>NOTE 3: PRS bandwidth is as indicated in <em>prs-Bandwidth</em> in the OTDOA or DL-AoD assistance data defined in [34].</p>
<p>NOTE 4: The same bands and the same Io conditions for each band apply for this requirement as for the corresponding requirement with the PRS bandwidth ≥ 24 RB.</p>
<p>NOTE 5: The serving cell, the reference cell, and the measured neighbour cell i are on the same carrier frequency.</p>
<p>NOTE 6: The condition level is increased by ∆&gt;0, when applicable, as described in Sections B.3.2 and B.3.3.</p>
<p>NOTE 7: The Io is defined in PRS positioning subframes. The same Io range applies to PRS and non-PRS symbols. Io levels are different in PRS and non-PRS symbols within the same subframe.</p>
<p>NOTE 8: NR operating band groups are as defined in Section 3.5.2.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 10.1.24.2.1-2: PRS-RSRP absolute accuracy for FR2

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |   |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+===+
| N     | Ex    | PRS   | PRS   | **    | Io    |       |   |
| ormal | treme | Ê     | BW    | Repet | ^Not  |       |   |
| cond  | cond  | s/Iot |       | ition | e\ 7^ |       |   |
| ition | ition |       |       | fac   | range |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | tor** |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | **(   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | **$\m |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | athbf |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | {T}_{ |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | \text |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | {rep} |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | }^{\t |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ext{P |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | RS}}\ |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | mathb |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | f{*}\ |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | mathb |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | f{L}_ |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | {\tex |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | t{PRS |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | }}\ma |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | thbf{ |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | /}\ma |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | thbf{ |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | K}_{\ |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | text{ |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | comb} |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | }^{\t |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ext{P |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | RS}}\ |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | mathb |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | f{)}$ |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       |       |       | Min   | Max   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | imum\ | imum\ |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | Io    | Io    |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | ^Not  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | e\ 1^ |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | dBm / |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | SCS   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | ~PRS~ |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| dB    | dB    | dB    | PRB   | \-    | dBm / | dBm/B |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | ~PRS~ | nnel~ |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       |       |       | **dB  | **d   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | m/120 | Bm/60 |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | kHz** | kHz** |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | ^Not  | ^Not  |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | e\ 6^ | e\ 6^ |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| ±5    | ±8    | ≥-3dB | ≥24   | All   | Same  | -50   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | value |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | as    |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | PRP   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | Table |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | B     |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | .2.14 |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | -2,   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | acco  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | rding |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | to UE |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | Power |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | lass, |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | ating |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | band  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | angle |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | ar    |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | rival |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       |       |       | Note  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | 4     |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       |       |       | Note  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | 4     |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| ±8.5  | ±11.5 | ≥     | 24 ≤  | All   | Note  |       |   |
|       |       | -13dB | BW ≤  |       | 4     |       |   |
|       |       |       | 64    |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| ±6    | ±9    |       | BW    | All   | Note  |       |   |
|       |       |       | \>64  |       | 4     |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 1:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| This  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cond  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ition |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| expr  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| essed |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| av    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| erage |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| per   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| RE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| over  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| all   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| REs   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| in an |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| OFDM  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| sy    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| mbol. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Void. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| PRS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| width |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| is as |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| indi  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cated |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| *prs- |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| idth* |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| OTDOA |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| or    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| D     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| L-AoD |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| assis |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| tance |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| data  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| \[    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 34\]. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 4:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| with  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| PRS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| width |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ≥ 24  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| RB.   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 5:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| se    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| rving |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cell, |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| refe  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| rence |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cell, |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| mea   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| sured |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| neig  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| hbour |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cell  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| i are |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| on    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ca    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| rrier |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| frequ |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ency. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 6:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cond  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ition |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| level |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| incr  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| eased |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| by    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ∆\>0, |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| when  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| pplic |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| able, |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| desc  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ribed |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Sec   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| B.3.2 |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| B     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| .3.3. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 7:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Io is |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| PRS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| p     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ositi |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| oning |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| subfr |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ames. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| range |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ap    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| plies |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| PRS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| no    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| n-PRS |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| sym   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| bols. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| l     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| evels |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| diff  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| erent |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| PRS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| no    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| n-PRS |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| sy    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| mbols |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| w     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ithin |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| subf  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| rame. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 8: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Se    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ction |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+

10.1.24.2.2 Relative PRS RSRP accuracy

The relative accuracy of PRS-RSRP is defined as accuracy of the
difference between two PRS-RSRP measurements.

The relative PRS-RSRP accuracy requirements apply for the cases when
PRS-RSRP is measured from PRS resources in the same PRS resource set in
FR1 or FR2, and measured with same Rx beam in case of FR2.

The accuracy requirements for PRS-RSRP measurement for FR1 defined in
Table 10.1.24.2.2-1 are valid under the following conditions:

Conditions defined in 38.101-1 Clause 7.3 for reference sensitivity are
fulfilled.

> PRP 1,2\|~dBm~ according to Annex B.2.14 for a corresponding Band

The accuracy requirements for PRS-RSRP measurement for FR2 defined in
Table 10.1.24.2.2-2 are valid under the following conditions:

Conditions defined in 38.101-2 Clause 7.3 for reference sensitivity are
fulfilled.

> PRP 1,2\|~dBm~ according to Annex B.2.14 for a corresponding Band

Table 10.1.24.2.2-1: PRS-RSRP relative accuracy for FR1

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Accuracy</th>
<th>Conditions</th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Normal condition</td>
<td>Extreme condition</td>
<td>PRS Ês/Iot</td>
<td>PRS BW</td>
<td><p><strong>Repetition factor</strong></p>
<p><strong>(</strong><span class="math inline"><strong>T</strong><sub>rep</sub><sup>PRS</sup><strong>*</strong><strong>L</strong><sub>PRS</sub><strong>/</strong><strong>K</strong><sub>comb</sub><sup>PRS</sup><strong>)</strong></span></p></td>
<td>Io <sup>Note 7</sup> range</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR operating band groups <sup>Note 8</sup></td>
<td><p>Minimum<br />
Io <sup>Note 1</sup></p>
<p>dBm / SCS<sub>PRS</sub></p></td>
<td>Maximum<br />
Io</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>dB</td>
<td>dB</td>
<td>dB</td>
<td>PRB</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td>dBm / SCS<sub>PRS</sub></td>
<td>dBm/BW<sub>Channel</sub></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><strong>dBm/15kHz</strong> <sup>Note 6</sup></td>
<td><strong>dBm/30kHz</strong> <sup>Note 6</sup></td>
<td><strong>dBm/60kHz</strong> <sup>Note 6</sup></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>±3.5</td>
<td>±5.0</td>
<td>≥-3dB</td>
<td>≥24</td>
<td>All</td>
<td>NR_FDD_FR1_A, NR_TDD_FR1_A, NR_SDL_FR1_A</td>
<td>-127</td>
<td>-124</td>
<td>-121</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR_FDD_FR1_B</td>
<td>-126.5</td>
<td>-123.5</td>
<td>-120.5</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR_TDD_FR1_C</td>
<td>-126</td>
<td>-123</td>
<td>-120</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR_FDD_FR1_D, NR_TDD_FR1_D</td>
<td>-125.5</td>
<td>-122.5</td>
<td>-119.5</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR_FDD_FR1_E, NR_TDD_FR1_E</td>
<td>-125</td>
<td>-122</td>
<td>-119</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR_FDD_FR1_F</td>
<td>-124.5</td>
<td>-121.5</td>
<td>-118.5</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR_FDD_FR1_G, NR_TDD_FR1_G</td>
<td>-124</td>
<td>-121</td>
<td>-118</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR_FDD_FR1_H</td>
<td>-123.5</td>
<td>-120.5</td>
<td>-117.5</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Note 4</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Note 4</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>±9.5</td>
<td>±11.0</td>
<td>≥-13dB</td>
<td>24 ≤ BW ≤ 52</td>
<td>All</td>
<td>Note 4</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>±6.5</td>
<td>±8.0</td>
<td></td>
<td>52&lt; BW≤ 104</td>
<td>All</td>
<td>Note 4</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>±5.0</td>
<td>±6.5</td>
<td></td>
<td>BW &gt;104</td>
<td>All</td>
<td>Note 4</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>NOTE 1: This minimum Io condition is expressed as the average Io per RE over all REs in an OFDM symbol.</p>
<p>NOTE 2: Void.</p>
<p>NOTE 3: PRS bandwidth is as indicated in <em>prs-Bandwidth</em> in the OTDOA or DL-AoD assistance data defined in [34].</p>
<p>NOTE 4: The same bands and the same Io conditions for each band apply for this requirement as for the corresponding requirement with the PRS bandwidth ≥ 24 RB.</p>
<p>NOTE 5: The serving cell, the reference cell, and the measured neighbour cell i are on the same carrier frequency.</p>
<p>NOTE 6: The condition level is increased by ∆&gt;0, when applicable, as described in Sections B.3.2 and B.3.3.</p>
<p>NOTE 7: The Io is defined in PRS positioning subframes. The same Io range applies to PRS and non-PRS symbols. Io levels are different in PRS and non-PRS symbols within the same subframe.</p>
<p>NOTE 8: NR operating band groups are as defined in Section 3.5.2.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 10.1.24.2.2-2: PRS-RSRP relative accuracy for FR2

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |   |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+===+
| N     | Ex    | PRS   | PRS   | **    | Io    |       |   |
| ormal | treme | Ê     | BW    | Repet | ^Not  |       |   |
| cond  | cond  | s/Iot |       | ition | e\ 7^ |       |   |
| ition | ition |       |       | fac   | range |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | tor** |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | **(   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | **$\m |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | athbf |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | {T}_{ |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | \text |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | {rep} |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | }^{\t |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ext{P |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | RS}}\ |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | mathb |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | f{*}\ |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | mathb |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | f{L}_ |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | {\tex |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | t{PRS |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | }}\ma |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | thbf{ |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | /}\ma |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | thbf{ |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | K}_{\ |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | text{ |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | comb} |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | }^{\t |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ext{P |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | RS}}\ |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | mathb |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | f{)}$ |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       |       |       | Min   | Max   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | imum\ | imum\ |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | Io    | Io    |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | ^Not  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | e\ 1^ |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | dBm / |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | SCS   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | ~PRS~ |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| dB    | dB    | dB    | PRB   | \-    | dBm / | dBm/B |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | ~PRS~ | nnel~ |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       |       |       | **dB  | **d   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | m/120 | Bm/60 |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | kHz** | kHz** |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | ^Not  | ^Not  |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | e\ 6^ | e\ 6^ |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| ±5.0  | ±8.0  | ≥-3dB | ≥24   | All   | Same  | -50   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | value |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | as    |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | PRP   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | Table |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | B.2.  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | 14-2, |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | acco  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | rding |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | to UE |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | Power |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | lass, |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | ating |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | band  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | angle |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | ar    |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | rival |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       |       |       | Note  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | 4     |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       |       |       | Note  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | 4     |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| ±10   | ±13   | ≥     | 24 ≤  | All   | Note  |       |   |
|       |       | -13dB | BW ≤  |       | 4     |       |   |
|       |       |       | 64    |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| ±7.5  | ±10.5 |       | BW    | All   | Note  |       |   |
|       |       |       | \>64  |       | 4     |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 1:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| This  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cond  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ition |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| expr  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| essed |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| av    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| erage |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| per   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| RE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| over  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| all   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| REs   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| in an |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| OFDM  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| sy    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| mbol. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Void. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| PRS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| width |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| is as |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| indi  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cated |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| *prs- |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| idth* |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| OTDOA |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| or    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| D     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| L-AoD |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| assis |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| tance |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| data  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| \[    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 34\]. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 4:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| with  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| PRS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| width |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ≥ 24  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| RB.   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 5:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| se    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| rving |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cell, |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| refe  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| rence |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cell, |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| mea   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| sured |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| neig  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| hbour |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cell  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| i are |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| on    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ca    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| rrier |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| frequ |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ency. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 6:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cond  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ition |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| level |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| incr  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| eased |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| by    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ∆\>0, |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| when  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| pplic |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| able, |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| desc  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ribed |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Sec   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| B.3.2 |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| B     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| .3.3. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 7:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Io is |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| PRS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| p     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ositi |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| oning |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| subfr |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ames. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| range |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ap    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| plies |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| PRS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| no    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| n-PRS |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| sym   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| bols. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| l     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| evels |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| diff  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| erent |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| PRS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| no    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| n-PRS |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| sy    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| mbols |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| w     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ithin |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| subf  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| rame. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 8: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Se    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ction |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+

#### 10.1.24.3 Report mapping

##### 10.1.24.3.1 Absolute PRS-RSRP Measurement Report Mapping

The reporting range of absolute PRS-RSRP measurement is defined from
-156 dBm to -31 dBm with 1 dB resolution.

The mapping of measured quantity is defined in Table 10.1.24.3.1-1. The
range in the signalling may be larger than the guaranteed accuracy
range.

Table 10.1.24.3.1-1: Measurement report mapping for PRS-RSRP

  **Reported value**   **Measured quantity value**   **Unit**
  -------------------- ----------------------------- ----------
  PRS\_RSRP\_0         PRS-RSRP\<-156                dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_1         -156≤PRS-RSRP\<-155           dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_2         -155≤PRS-RSRP\<-154           dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_3         -154≤PRS-RSRP\<-153           dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_4         -153≤PRS-RSRP\<-152           dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_5         -152≤PRS-RSRP\<-151           dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_6         -151≤PRS-RSRP\<-150           dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_7         -150≤PRS-RSRP\<-149           dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_8         -149≤PRS-RSRP\<-148           dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_9         -148≤PRS-RSRP\<-147           dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_10        -147≤PRS-RSRP\<-146           dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_11        -146≤PRS-RSRP\<-145           dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_12        -145≤PRS-RSRP\<-144           dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_13        -144≤PRS-RSRP\<-143           dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_14        -143≤PRS-RSRP\<-142           dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_15        -142≤PRS-RSRP\<-141           dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_16        -141≤PRS-RSRP\<-140           dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_17        -140≤PRS-RSRP\<-139           dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_18        -139≤PRS-RSRP\<-138           dBm
  ...                  ...                           ...
  PRS\_RSRP\_111       -46≤PRS-RSRP\<-45             dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_112       -45≤PRS-RSRP\<-44             dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_113       -44≤PRS-RSRP\<-43             dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_114       -43≤PRS-RSRP\<-42             dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_115       -42≤PRS-RSRP\<-41             dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_116       -41≤PRS-RSRP\<-40             dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_117       -40≤PRS-RSRP\<-39             dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_118       -39≤PRS-RSRP\<-38             dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_119       -38≤PRS-RSRP\<-37             dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_120       -37≤PRS-RSRP\<-36             dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_121       -36≤PRS-RSRP\<-35             dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_122       -35≤PRS-RSRP\<-34             dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_123       -34≤PRS-RSRP\<-33             dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_124       -33≤PRS-RSRP\<-32             dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_125       -32≤PRS-RSRP\<-31             dBm
  PRS\_RSRP\_126       -31≤PRS-RSRP                  dBm

##### 10.1.24.3.2 Differential Report Mapping for PRS-RSRP Measurement

The reporting range of differential PRS-RSRP is defined from -30 dB to 0
dB with 1 dB resolution when *nr-DL-AoD-RequestLocationInformation*
message is received.

The mapping of measured quantity is defined in Table 10.1.24.3.2-1. The
range in the signalling may be larger than the guaranteed accuracy
range.

The reporting range of differential PRS-RSRP is defined from -30 dB to
30 dB with 1 dB resolution when *nr-DL-TDOA-RequestLocationInformation*
or *nr-Multi-RTT-RequestLocationInformation is received*.

The mapping of measured quantity is defined in Table 10.1.24.3.2-2. The
range in the signalling may be larger than the guaranteed accuracy range
or the range supported by the UE receiver for differentail RSRP measured
on different PRS resources in frequency domain at the same time.

Table 10.1.24.3.2-1: Measurement report mapping for differential
PRS-RSRP

  Reported value   Measured quantity value   Unit
  ---------------- ------------------------- ------
  DIFFRSRP\_0      -30≥ΔRSRP                 dB
  DIFFRSRP\_1      -29≥ΔRSRP\>-30            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_2      -28≥ΔRSRP\>-29            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_3      -27≥ΔRSRP\>-28            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_4      -26≥ΔRSRP\>-27            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_5      -25≥ΔRSRP\>-26            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_6      -24≥ΔRSRP\>-25            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_7      -23≥ΔRSRP\>-24            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_8      -22≥ΔRSRP\>-23            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_9      -21≥ΔRSRP\>-22            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_10     -20≥ΔRSRP\>-21            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_11     -19≥ΔRSRP\>-20            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_12     -18≥ΔRSRP\>-19            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_13     -17≥ΔRSRP\>-18            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_14     -16≥ΔRSRP\>-17            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_15     -15≥ΔRSRP\>-16            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_16     -14≥ΔRSRP\>-15            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_17     -13≥ΔRSRP\>-14            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_18     -12≥ΔRSRP\>-13            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_19     -11≥ΔRSRP\>-12            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_20     -10≥ΔRSRP\>-11            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_21     -9≥ΔRSRP\>-10             dB
  DIFFRSRP\_22     -8≥ΔRSRP\>-9              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_23     -7≥ΔRSRP\>-8              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_24     -6≥ΔRSRP\>-7              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_25     -5≥ΔRSRP\>-6              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_26     -4≥ΔRSRP\>-5              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_27     -3≥ΔRSRP\>-4              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_28     -2≥ΔRSRP\>-3              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_29     -1≥ΔRSRP\>-2              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_30     0≥ΔRSRP\>-1               dB

Table 10.1.24.3.2-2: Measurement report mapping for differential
PRS-RSRP

  Reported value   Measured quantity value   Unit
  ---------------- ------------------------- ------
  DIFFRSRP\_0      -30≥ΔRSRP                 dB
  DIFFRSRP\_1      -29≥ΔRSRP\>-30            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_2      -28≥ΔRSRP\>-29            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_3      -27≥ΔRSRP\>-28            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_4      -26≥ΔRSRP\>-27            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_5      -25≥ΔRSRP\>-26            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_6      -24≥ΔRSRP\>-25            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_7      -23≥ΔRSRP\>-24            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_8      -22≥ΔRSRP\>-23            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_9      -21≥ΔRSRP\>-22            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_10     -20≥ΔRSRP\>-21            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_11     -19≥ΔRSRP\>-20            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_12     -18≥ΔRSRP\>-19            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_13     -17≥ΔRSRP\>-18            dB
  DIFFRSRP\_14     -16≥ΔRSRP\>-17            dB
  ...              ...                       ...
  DIFFRSRP\_25     -5≥ΔRSRP\>-6              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_26     -4≥ΔRSRP\>-5              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_27     -3≥ΔRSRP\>-4              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_28     -2≥ΔRSRP\>-3              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_29     -1≥ΔRSRP\>-2              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_30     0≥ΔRSRP\>-1               dB
  DIFFRSRP\_31     1≥ΔRSRP\>0                dB
  DIFFRSRP\_32     2≥ΔRSRP\>1                dB
  DIFFRSRP\_33     3≥ΔRSRP\>2                dB
  DIFFRSRP\_34     4≥ΔRSRP\>3                dB
  DIFFRSRP\_35     5≥ΔRSRP\>4                dB
  DIFFRSRP\_36     6≥ΔRSRP\>5                dB
  ...              ...                       ...
  DIFFRSRP\_47     17≥ΔRSRP\>16              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_48     18≥ΔRSRP\>17              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_49     19≥ΔRSRP\>18              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_50     20≥ΔRSRP\>19              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_51     21≥ΔRSRP\>20              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_52     22≥ΔRSRP\>21              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_53     23≥ΔRSRP\>-22             dB
  DIFFRSRP\_54     24≥ΔRSRP\>23              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_55     25≥ΔRSRP\>24              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_56     26≥ΔRSRP\>25              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_57     27≥ΔRSRP\>26              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_58     28≥ΔRSRP\>27              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_59     29≥ΔRSRP\>28              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_60     30≥ΔRSRP\>29              dB
  DIFFRSRP\_61     ΔRSRP\>30                 dB

### 10.1.25 UE Rx-Tx Time Difference Measurements

#### 10.1.25.1 Introduction

The requirements in Clause 10.1.25 shall apply, provided the UE has
received *nr-Multi-RTT-RequestLocationInformation* message from LMF via
LPP \[34\] requesting the UE to report one or more UE Rx-Tx time
difference measurements defined in TS 38.215 \[4\].

#### 10.1.25.2 Measurement Accuracy Requirements

The UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement accuracy requirements in this
clause shall not apply, if:

> N~TA\_offset~ defined in Table 7.1.2-2 changes during the UE Rx-Tx
> measurement period or
>
> if the uplink transmission timing changes during the UE Rx-Tx
> measurement period due to the network-configured Timing Advance.

The UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement accuracy requirements in this
clause shall apply provided that:

-   **The** UE transmits SRS within \[-160, 160\] msec of at least one
    DL PRS resource of each of the TRPs in the assistance data.

If the uplink transmission timing changes during the UE Rx-Tx
measurement period due to the autonomous timing adjustment defined in
clause 7.1.2 then:

\- UE Rx-Tx measurement accuracy requirements shall apply for a cell,
which is also the downlink reference cell (defined in section 7.1.1) for
SRS transmission even if the uplink transmission timing changes during
the UE Rx-Tx measurement period due to autonomous adjustment.

> \- UE Rx-Tx measurement accuracy requirements shall not apply for a
> cell, which is not the downlink reference cell (defined in section
> 7.1.1) for SRS transmission, if the uplink transmission timing changes
> during the UE Rx-Tx measurement period due to autonomous adjustment.

When a serving cell change occurs during the UE Rx-Tx measurement
period, the UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement accuracy requirements
in this clause shall apply provided that the serving cell change does
not impact SRS configuration for the UE Rx-Tx measurement.

Note: The requirements for fading channel in this clause are derived
based on TDL-A (30 ns delay spread, 5Hz) and TDL-C (60 ns delay spread,
300 Hz) channel models for FR1 and FR2 respectively.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.25.2-1 for FR1 are valid under
the following conditions:

Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

PRP\|~dBm~ according to Annex B.2.14 for a corresponding Band.

AWGN propagation condition.

Table 10.1.25.2-1: UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement accuracy in FR1
in AWGN

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **    | **Co  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Accur | nditi |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| acy** | ons** |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
|       | **PRS | **Mi  | **PRS | **PRS | **NR  | **I   |       |
|       | Ês/   | nimum | SCS** | res   | oper  | o^Not |       |
|       | Iot** | PRS   |       | ource | ating | e\ 4^ |       |
|       |       | b     |       | re    | band  | ra    |       |
|       |       | andwi |       | petit | gr    | nge** |       |
|       |       | dth** |       | ion** | oups^ |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | $\    | Note\ |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | mathb |  2^** |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | f{(T} |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | _{\ma |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | thbf{ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \text |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | {rep} |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | }}^{\ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | mathb |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | f{\te |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | xt{PR |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | S}}}\ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | mathb |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | f{*}\ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | mathb |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | f{L}_ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | {\mat |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | hbf{\ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | text{ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | PRS}} |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | }\mat |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | hbf{/ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | }\mat |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | hbf{K |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | }_{\m |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | athbf |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | {\tex |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | t{com |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | b}}}^ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | {\mat |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | hbf{\ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | text{ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | PRS}} |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | }$**^ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Note\ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |  3^** |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       | **Min | **Max |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | imum\ | imum\ |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Io^   | Io**  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Note\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |  1^** |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **Tc^ | *     | *     | **    |       |       | **dBm | **dBm |
| Note\ | *dB** | *RB** | kHz** |       |       | /     | /BW** |
|  5^** |       |       |       |       |       | SCS~P |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RS~** |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     | -3    | ≥24   | 15    | ≥4    | N     | -127  | -50   |
| 78+δ  |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | N     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 126.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T | -126  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD | 125.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -125  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 124.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -124  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_G, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 123.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     |       | ≥52   |       | ≥1    | Note  | Note  | Note  |
| 59+δ  |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     |       | \>104 |       | ≥1    | Note  | Note  | Note  |
| 30+δ  |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     |       | ≥24   | 30    | ≥4    | N     | -124  | -50   |
| 57+δ  |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | N     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 123.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T | -123  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD | 122.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -122  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 121.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -121  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_G, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     |       | ≥48   |       | ≥1    | NOTE  | NOTE  | NOTE  |
| 30+δ  |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     |       | ≥132  |       | ≥1    | NOTE  | NOTE  | NOTE  |
| 15+δ  |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     |       | ≥24   | 60    | ≥4    | N     | -121  | -50   |
| 29+δ  |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | N     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -119  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -118  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_G, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     |       | ≥ 64  |       | ≥1    | NOTE  | NOTE  | NOTE  |
| 15+δ  |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ± 7+δ |       | ≥ 132 |       | ≥1    | NOTE  | NOTE  | NOTE  |
|       |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     | -13   | ≥24   | 15    | ≥4    | NOTE  | NOTE  | NOTE  |
| 101+δ |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     |       | ≥52   |       | ≥1    | NOTE  | NOTE  | NOTE  |
| 75+δ  |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     |       | \>104 |       | ≥1    | NOTE  | NOTE  | NOTE  |
| 37+δ  |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     |       | ≥24   | 30    | ≥4    | NOTE  | NOTE  | NOTE  |
| 58+δ  |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     |       | ≥48   |       | ≥1    | NOTE  | NOTE  | NOTE  |
| 39+δ  |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     |       | ≥132  |       | ≥1    | NOTE  | NOTE  | NOTE  |
| 16+δ  |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     |       | ≥24   | 60    | ≥4    | NOTE  | NOTE  | NOTE  |
| 36+δ  |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     |       | ≥ 64  |       | ≥1    | NOTE  | NOTE  | NOTE  |
| 16+δ  |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ± 8+δ |       | ≥ 132 |       | ≥1    | NOTE  | NOTE  | NOTE  |
|       |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| This  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cond  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ition |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| expr  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| essed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| av    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| erage |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| per   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| RE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| over  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| all   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| REs   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in an |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| OFDM  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sy    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mbol. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Se    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ction |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3.5.  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| $T    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| _{\te |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| xt{re |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| p}}^{ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \text |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| {PRS} |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| },\ L |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| _{\te |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| xt{PR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| S}}\  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ,K_{\ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| text{ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| comb} |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| }^{\t |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ext{P |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| RS}}$ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| confi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| gured |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| by    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| h     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| igher |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| layer |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| para  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| meter |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| *dl   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| -PRS- |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Resou |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rceRe |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| petit |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ionFa |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ctor, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dl    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| -PRS- |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NumSy |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mbols |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dl-   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| PRS-C |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ombSi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| zeNde |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in TS |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 7.355 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \[3   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4\].* |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io is |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| PRS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| s     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lots. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| range |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ap    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| plies |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| PRS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| no    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| n-PRS |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sym   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bols. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| l     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| evels |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| diff  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| erent |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| PRS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| no    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| n-PRS |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sy    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mbols |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| w     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ithin |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| slot. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 5: Tc |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| basic |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| iming |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| unit  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in TS |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 8.211 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| [6\]. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 6:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| with  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| PRS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| width |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sma   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| llest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| RB    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SCS.  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 7: δ  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| m     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| argin |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| deter |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| from  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Table |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 10    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .1.25 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .2-5. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.25.2-2 for FR1 are valid under
the following conditions:

Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

PRP\|~dBm~ according to Annex B.2.14 for a corresponding Band.

Fading propagation condition.

Table 10.1.25.2-2: UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement accuracy in FR1
in fading

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **    | **Co  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Accur | nditi |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| acy** | ons** |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
|       | **PRS | **Mi  | **PRS | **PRS | **NR  | **I   |       |
|       | Ês/   | nimum | SCS** | res   | oper  | o^Not |       |
|       | Iot** | PRS   |       | ource | ating | e\ 4^ |       |
|       |       | b     |       | re    | band  | ra    |       |
|       |       | andwi |       | petit | gr    | nge** |       |
|       |       | dth** |       | ion** | oups^ |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | $\    | Note\ |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | mathb |  2^** |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | f{(T} |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | _{\ma |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | thbf{ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \text |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | {rep} |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | }}^{\ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | mathb |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | f{\te |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | xt{PR |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | S}}}\ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | mathb |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | f{*}\ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | mathb |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | f{L}_ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | {\mat |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | hbf{\ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | text{ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | PRS}} |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | }\mat |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | hbf{/ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | }\mat |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | hbf{K |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | }_{\m |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | athbf |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | {\tex |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | t{com |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | b}}}^ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | {\mat |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | hbf{\ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | text{ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | PRS}} |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | }$**^ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Note\ |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |  3^** |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       | **Min | **Max |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | imum\ | imum\ |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Io^   | Io**  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Note\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |  1^** |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **Tc^ | *     | *     | **    |       |       | **dBm | **dBm |
| Note\ | *dB** | *RB** | kHz** |       |       | /     | /BW** |
|  5^** |       |       |       |       |       | SCS~P |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RS~** |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     | -3    | ≥24   | 15    | ≥4    | N     | -127  | -50   |
| 137+δ |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | N     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 126.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T | -126  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD | 125.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -125  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 124.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -124  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_G, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 123.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     |       | ≥52   |       | ≥1    | NOTE  | NOTE  | NOTE  |
| 96+δ  |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     |       | \>104 |       | ≥1    | NOTE  | NOTE  | NOTE  |
| 62+δ  |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     |       | ≥24   | 30    | ≥4    | N     | -124  | -50   |
| 87+δ  |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | N     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 123.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T | -123  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD | 122.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -122  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 121.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -121  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_G, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     |       | ≥48   |       | ≥1    | NOTE  | NOTE  | NOTE  |
| 68+δ  |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     |       | ≥132  |       | ≥1    | NOTE  | NOTE  | NOTE  |
| 44+δ  |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     |       | ≥24   | 60    | ≥4    | N     | -121  | -50   |
| 59+δ  |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | N     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -119  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | N     | -118  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1\_G, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     |       | ≥ 64  |       | ≥1    | NOTE  | NOTE  | NOTE  |
| 42+δ  |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     |       | ≥ 132 |       | ≥1    | NOTE  | NOTE  | NOTE  |
| 36+δ  |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     | -13   | ≥24   | 15    | ≥4    | NOTE  | NOTE  | NOTE  |
| 180+δ |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     |       | ≥52   |       | ≥1    | NOTE  | NOTE  | NOTE  |
| 98+δ  |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     |       | \>104 |       | ≥1    | NOTE  | NOTE  | NOTE  |
| 68+δ  |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     |       | ≥24   | 30    | ≥4    | NOTE  | NOTE  | NOTE  |
| 87+δ  |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     |       | ≥48   |       | ≥1    | NOTE  | NOTE  | NOTE  |
| 85+δ  |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     |       | ≥132  |       | ≥1    | NOTE  | NOTE  | NOTE  |
| 44+δ  |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     |       | ≥24   | 60    | ≥4    | NOTE  | NOTE  | NOTE  |
| 139+δ |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     |       | ≥ 64  |       | ≥1    | NOTE  | NOTE  | NOTE  |
| 46+δ  |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±     |       | ≥ 132 |       | ≥1    | NOTE  | NOTE  | NOTE  |
| 30+δ  |       |       |       |       | 6     | 6     | 6     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| This  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cond  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ition |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| expr  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| essed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| av    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| erage |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| per   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| RE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| over  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| all   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| REs   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in an |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| OFDM  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sy    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mbol. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Se    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ction |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3.5.  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| $T    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| _{\te |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| xt{re |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| p}}^{ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \text |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| {PRS} |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| },\ L |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| _{\te |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| xt{PR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| S}}\  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ,K_{\ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| text{ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| comb} |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| }^{\t |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ext{P |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| RS}}$ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| confi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| gured |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| by    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| h     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| igher |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| layer |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| para  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| meter |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| *dl   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| -PRS- |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Resou |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rceRe |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| petit |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ionFa |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ctor, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dl    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| -PRS- |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NumSy |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mbols |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dl-   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| PRS-C |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ombSi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| zeNde |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in TS |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 7.355 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \[3   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4\].* |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io is |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| PRS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| s     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lots. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| range |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ap    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| plies |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| PRS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| no    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| n-PRS |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sym   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bols. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| l     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| evels |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| diff  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| erent |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| PRS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| no    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| n-PRS |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sy    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mbols |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| w     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ithin |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| slot. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 5: Tc |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| basic |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| iming |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| unit  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in TS |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 8.211 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| [6\]. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 6:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| with  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| PRS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| width |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sma   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| llest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| RB    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SCS.  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 7: δ  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| m     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| argin |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| deter |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| from  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Table |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 10    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .1.25 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .2-5. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.25.2-3 for FR2 are valid under
the following conditions:

Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

PRP\|~dBm~ according to Annex B.2.14 for a corresponding Band.

AWGN propagation condition.

Table 10.1.25.2-3: UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement accuracy in FR2
in AWGN

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| **Acc   | **Condi |         |         |         |         |         |
| uracy** | tions** |         |         |         |         |         |
+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+
|         | **PRS   | **      | **PRS   | **PRS   | **Io^N  |         |
|         | Ê       | Minimum | SCS**   | r       | ote\ 4^ |         |
|         | s/Iot** | PRS     |         | esource | range** |         |
|         |         | band    |         | repetit |         |         |
|         |         | width** |         | ion**$\ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | mathbf{ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | (T}_{\m |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | athbf{\ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | text{re |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | p}}}^{\ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | mathbf{ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | \text{P |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | RS}}}\m |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | athbf{* |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | }\mathb |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | f{L}_{\ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | mathbf{ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | \text{P |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | RS}}}\m |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | athbf{/ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | }\mathb |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | f{K}_{\ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | mathbf{ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | \text{c |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | omb}}}^ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | {\mathb |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | f{\text |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | {PRS}}} |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | $**^Not |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | e\ 3^** |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         |         |         |         | **M     | **M     |
|         |         |         |         |         | inimum\ | aximum\ |
|         |         |         |         |         | Io^Not  | Io**    |
|         |         |         |         |         | e\ 1^** |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| *       | **dB**  | **RB**  | **kHz** |         | **dBm / | **dBm   |
| *Tc^Not |         |         |         |         | SCS     | /BW~Cha |
| e\ 5^** |         |         |         |         | ~PRS~** | nnel~** |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| ± 22+δ  | -3      | ≥24     | 60      | ≥4      | Same    | -50     |
|         |         |         |         |         | value   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | as PRP  |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | in      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Table   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | B.      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 2.14-2, |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | ac      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | cording |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | to UE   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class,  |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | op      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | erating |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | band    |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | angle   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | of      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | arrival |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| ± 15+δ  |         | ≥64     |         | ≥1      | NOTE 6  | NOTE 6  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| ± 7+δ   |         | ≥132    |         | ≥1      | NOTE 6  | NOTE 6  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| ± 12+δ  |         | ≥32     | 120     | ≥4      | Same    | -50     |
|         |         |         |         |         | value   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | as PRP  |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | in      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Table   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | B.      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 2.14-2, |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | ac      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | cording |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | to UE   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class,  |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | op      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | erating |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | band    |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | angle   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | of      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | arrival |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| ± 7+δ   |         | ≥64     |         | ≥1      | NOTE 6  | NOTE 6  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| ± 4+δ   |         | ≥128    |         | ≥1      | NOTE 6  | NOTE 6  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| ± 35+δ  | -13     | ≥24     | 60      | ≥4      | NOTE 6  | NOTE 6  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| ± 15+δ  |         | ≥64     |         | ≥1      | NOTE 6  | NOTE 6  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| ± 7+δ   |         | ≥132    |         | ≥1      | NOTE 6  | NOTE 6  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| ± 14+δ  |         | ≥32     | 120     | ≥4      | NOTE 6  | NOTE 6  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| ± 9+δ   |         | ≥64     |         | ≥1      | NOTE 6  | NOTE 6  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| ± 4+δ   |         | ≥128    |         | ≥1      | NOTE 6  | NOTE 6  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| NOTE 1: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| This    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| minimum |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Io      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| co      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ndition |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ex      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| pressed |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| as the  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| average |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Io per  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| RE over |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| all REs |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in an   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| OFDM    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| symbol. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NOTE 2: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NR      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| op      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| erating |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| band    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| groups  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| are as  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| defined |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Section |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 3.5.    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NOTE 3: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| $T_{\te |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| xt{rep} |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| }^{\tex |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| t{PRS}} |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ,\ L_{\ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| text{PR |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| S}}\ ,K |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| _{\text |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| {comb}} |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ^{\text |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| {PRS}}$ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| are     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| by      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| higher  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| layer   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| pa      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rameter |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| *dl-P   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| RS-Reso |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urceRep |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| etition |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Factor, |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| dl-     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| PRS-Num |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Symbols |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| dl      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| -PRS-Co |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| mbSizeN |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| defined |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in TS   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 37.355  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| \       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| [34\].* |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NOTE 4: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| The Io  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| defined |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in PRS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| slots.  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| The     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| same Io |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| range   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| applies |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| to PRS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| non-PRS |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| s       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ymbols. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Io      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| levels  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| are     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| di      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| fferent |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in PRS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| non-PRS |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| symbols |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| within  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| same    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| slot.   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NOTE 5: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Tc is   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| basic   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| timing  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| unit    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| defined |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in TS   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 38.211  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| \[6\].  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NOTE 6: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| The     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| same    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bands   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and the |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| same Io |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ditions |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| each    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| band    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| apply   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| this    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| requ    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| irement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| as for  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| corres  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ponding |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| requ    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| irement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| with    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the PRS |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ba      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ndwidth |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of the  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| s       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| mallest |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| RB      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| number  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for the |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| corres  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ponding |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SCS.    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NOTE 7: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| δ is    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| margin  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| det     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ermined |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| from    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Table   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 10.1.   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 25.2-6. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.25.2-4 for FR2 are valid under
the following conditions:

Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

PRP\|~dBm~ according to Annex B.2.14 for a corresponding Band.

Fading propagation condition.

Table 10.1.25.2-4: UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement accuracy in FR2
in fading

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| **Acc   | **Condi |         |         |         |         |         |
| uracy** | tions** |         |         |         |         |         |
+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+
|         | **PRS   | **      | **PRS   | **PRS   | **Io^N  |         |
|         | Ê       | Minimum | SCS**   | r       | ote\ 4^ |         |
|         | s/Iot** | PRS     |         | esource | range** |         |
|         |         | band    |         | repetit |         |         |
|         |         | width** |         | ion**$\ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | mathbf{ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | (T}_{\m |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | athbf{\ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | text{re |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | p}}}^{\ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | mathbf{ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | \text{P |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | RS}}}\m |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | athbf{* |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | }\mathb |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | f{L}_{\ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | mathbf{ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | \text{P |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | RS}}}\m |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | athbf{/ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | }\mathb |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | f{K}_{\ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | mathbf{ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | \text{c |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | omb}}}^ |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | {\mathb |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | f{\text |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | {PRS}}} |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | $**^Not |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | e\ 3^** |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         |         |         |         | **M     | **M     |
|         |         |         |         |         | inimum\ | aximum\ |
|         |         |         |         |         | Io^Not  | Io**    |
|         |         |         |         |         | e\ 1^** |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| *       | **dB**  | **RB**  | **kHz** |         | **dBm / | **dBm   |
| *Tc^Not |         |         |         |         | SCS     | /BW~Cha |
| e\ 5^** |         |         |         |         | ~PRS~** | nnel~** |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| ± 75+δ  | -3      | ≥24     | 60      | ≥4      | Same    | -50     |
|         |         |         |         |         | value   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | as PRP  |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | in      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Table   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | B.      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 2.14-2, |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | ac      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | cording |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | to UE   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class,  |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | op      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | erating |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | band    |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | angle   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | of      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | arrival |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| ± 72+δ  |         | ≥64     |         | ≥1      | NOTE 6  | NOTE 6  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| ± 57+δ  |         | ≥132    |         | ≥1      | NOTE 6  | NOTE 6  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| ± 61+δ  |         | ≥32     | 120     | ≥4      | Same    | -50     |
|         |         |         |         |         | value   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | as PRP  |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | in      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Table   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | B.      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 2.14-2, |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | ac      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | cording |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | to UE   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class,  |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | op      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | erating |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | band    |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | angle   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | of      |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | arrival |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| ± 64+δ  |         | ≥64     |         | ≥1      | NOTE 6  | NOTE 6  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| ± 55+δ  |         | ≥128    |         | ≥1      | NOTE 6  | NOTE 6  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| ± 92+δ  | -13     | ≥24     | 60      | ≥4      | NOTE 6  | NOTE 6  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| ± 70+δ  |         | ≥64     |         | ≥1      | NOTE 6  | NOTE 6  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| ± 57+δ  |         | ≥132    |         | ≥1      | NOTE 6  | NOTE 6  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| ± 60+δ  |         | ≥32     | 120     | ≥4      | NOTE 6  | NOTE 6  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| ± 66+δ  |         | ≥64     |         | ≥1      | NOTE 6  | NOTE 6  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| ± 62+δ  |         | ≥128    |         | ≥1      | NOTE 6  | NOTE 6  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| NOTE 1: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| This    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| minimum |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Io      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| co      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ndition |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ex      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| pressed |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| as the  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| average |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Io per  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| RE over |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| all REs |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in an   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| OFDM    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| symbol. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NOTE 2: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NR      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| op      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| erating |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| band    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| groups  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| are as  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| defined |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Section |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 3.5.    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NOTE 3: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| $T_{\te |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| xt{rep} |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| }^{\tex |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| t{PRS}} |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ,\ L_{\ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| text{PR |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| S}}\ ,K |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| _{\text |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| {comb}} |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ^{\text |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| {PRS}}$ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| are     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| by      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| higher  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| layer   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| pa      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rameter |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| *dl-P   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| RS-Reso |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urceRep |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| etition |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Factor, |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| dl-     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| PRS-Num |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Symbols |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| dl      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| -PRS-Co |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| mbSizeN |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| defined |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in TS   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 37.355  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| \       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| [34\].* |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NOTE 4: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| The Io  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| defined |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in PRS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| slots.  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| The     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| same Io |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| range   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| applies |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| to PRS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| non-PRS |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| s       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ymbols. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Io      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| levels  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| are     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| di      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| fferent |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in PRS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| non-PRS |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| symbols |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| within  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| same    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| slot.   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NOTE 5: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Tc is   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| basic   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| timing  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| unit    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| defined |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in TS   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 38.211  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| \[6\].  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NOTE 6: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| The     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| same    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bands   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and the |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| same Io |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ditions |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| each    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| band    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| apply   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| this    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| requ    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| irement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| as for  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| corres  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ponding |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| requ    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| irement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| with    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the PRS |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ba      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ndwidth |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of the  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| s       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| mallest |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| RB      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| number  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for the |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| corres  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ponding |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SCS.    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| NOTE 7: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| δ is    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| margin  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| det     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ermined |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| from    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Table   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 10.1.   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 25.2-6. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

Table 10.1.25.2-5: Margin for UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement
accuracy in FR1

+----------------------+----------------------+--------------+-----+
| Min(PRS BW, SRS BW)  | Margin (Tc           |              |     |
| (RB)                 | ^Note\ 1^)           |              |     |
+======================+======================+==============+=====+
| SCS = 15 kHz         | SCS = 30 kHz         | SCS = 60 kHz |     |
+----------------------+----------------------+--------------+-----+
| ≥ 24                 | N/A                  | N/A          | 160 |
+----------------------+----------------------+--------------+-----+
| ≥ 52                 | ≥ 24                 | N/A          | 80  |
+----------------------+----------------------+--------------+-----+
| ≥ 104                | ≥ 48                 | ≥ 24         | 56  |
+----------------------+----------------------+--------------+-----+
| N/A                  | ≥ 132                | ≥ 64         | 24  |
+----------------------+----------------------+--------------+-----+
| N/A                  | N/A                  | ≥ 132        | 24  |
+----------------------+----------------------+--------------+-----+
| NOTE 1: Tc is the    |                      |              |     |
| basic timing unit    |                      |              |     |
| defined in TS 38.211 |                      |              |     |
| \[6\].               |                      |              |     |
|                      |                      |              |     |
| NOTE 2: If SRS and   |                      |              |     |
| PRS have different   |                      |              |     |
| SCS, the margin      |                      |              |     |
| corresponding to the |                      |              |     |
| smallest RS BW in    |                      |              |     |
| MHz applies.         |                      |              |     |
+----------------------+----------------------+--------------+-----+

Table 10.1.25.2-6: Margin for UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement
accuracy in FR2

+-------------------------------+-----------------------+----+
| Min(PRS BW, SRS BW) (MHz)     | Margin (Tc ^Note\ 1^) |    |
+===============================+=======================+====+
| SCS = 60 kHz                  | SCS = 120 kHz         |    |
+-------------------------------+-----------------------+----+
| ≥ 24                          | N/A                   | 76 |
+-------------------------------+-----------------------+----+
| ≥ 64                          | ≥ 32                  | 32 |
+-------------------------------+-----------------------+----+
| ≥ 132                         | ≥ 64                  | 24 |
+-------------------------------+-----------------------+----+
| N/A                           | ≥ 128                 | 20 |
+-------------------------------+-----------------------+----+
| NOTE 1: Tc is the basic       |                       |    |
| timing unit defined in TS     |                       |    |
| 38.211 \[6\].                 |                       |    |
|                               |                       |    |
| NOTE 2: If SRS and PRS have   |                       |    |
| different SCS, the margin     |                       |    |
| corresponding to the smallest |                       |    |
| RS BW in MHz applies.         |                       |    |
+-------------------------------+-----------------------+----+

#### 10.1.25.3 Report mapping

##### 10.1.25.3.1 Absolute UE Rx-Tx Measurement Report Mapping

The reporting range for the absolute UE Rx-Tx time difference
measurement (T~UE\ Rx-Tx~) is defined from -985024×T~c~ to 985024×T~c~
with the resolution step of 2*^k^*×T~c~, where:

T~c~ is defined in TS 38.211 \[6\],

*k~min~*≤*k*≤*k~max~*,

*k~min~*=\[2\] and *k~max~*=5, when at least one of the PRS and the SRS
resources configured for T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ is in FR1,

*k~min~*=0 and *k~max~*=5, when both PRS and SRS resources configured
for T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ are in FR2,

> *k≥* *timingReportingGranularityFactor* \[34\] configured by LMF via
> LPP for the UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement.

The T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ report mapping for *k* = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 are
specified in Tables 10.1.25.3.1-1, 10.1.25.3.1-2, 10.1.25.3.1-3,
10.1.25.3.1-4, 10.1.25.3.1-5, and 10.1.25.3.1-6, respectively.

Table 10.1.25.3.1-1: Absolute UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement
report mapping for *k*=0

  ---------------------------------- ----------------------------------- ------
  Reported Quantity Value            Measured Quantity Value             Unit
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0000      T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< -985024             T~c~
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0001      -985024 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< -985023   T~c~
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0002      -985023 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< -985022   T~c~
  ...                                ...                                 ...
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_985024    -1 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 0              T~c~
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_985025    0 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 1               T~c~
  ...                                ...                                 ...
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_1970047   985022 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 985023     T~c~
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_1970048   985023 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 985024     T~c~
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_1970049   985024 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~               T~c~
  ---------------------------------- ----------------------------------- ------

Table 10.1.25.3.1-2: Absolute UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement
report mapping for *k*=1

  ------------------------------------- ----------------------------------- ------
  Reported Quantity Value               Measured Quantity Value             Unit
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0000         T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< -985024             T~c~
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0001         -985024 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< -985022   T~c~
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0002         -985022 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< -985020   T~c~
  ...                                   ...                                 ...
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_492512       -2 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 0              T~c~
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_492513       0 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 2               T~c~
  ...                                   ...                                 ...
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_**985023**   985020 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 985022     T~c~
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_**985024**   985022 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 985024     T~c~
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_**985025**   985024 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~               T~c~
  ------------------------------------- ----------------------------------- ------

Table 10.1.25.3.1-3: Absolute UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement
report mapping for *k*=2

  ------------------------------------- ----------------------------------- ------
  Reported Quantity Value               Measured Quantity Value             Unit
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0000         T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< -985024             T~c~
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0001         -985024 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< -985020   T~c~
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0002         -985020 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< -985016   T~c~
  ...                                   ...                                 ...
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_246256       -4 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 0              T~c~
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_246257       0 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 4               T~c~
  ...                                   ...                                 ...
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_**492511**   985016 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 985020     T~c~
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_**492512**   985020 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 985024     T~c~
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_**492513**   985024 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~               T~c~
  ------------------------------------- ----------------------------------- ------

Table 10.1.25.3.1-4: Absolute UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement
report mapping for *k*=3

  ------------------------------------- ----------------------------------- ------
  Reported Quantity Value               Measured Quantity Value             Unit
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0000         T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< -985024             T~c~
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0001         -985024 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< -985016   T~c~
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0002         -985016 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< -985008   T~c~
  ...                                   ...                                 ...
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_123128       -8 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 0              T~c~
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_123129       0 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 8               T~c~
  ...                                   ...                                 ...
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_**246255**   985008 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 985016     T~c~
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_**246256**   985016 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 985024     T~c~
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_246257       985024 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~               T~c~
  ------------------------------------- ----------------------------------- ------

Table 10.1.25.3.1-5: Absolute UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement
report mapping for *k*=4

  --------------------------------- ----------------------------------- ------
  Reported Quantity Value           Measured Quantity Value             Unit
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0000     T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< -985024             T~c~
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0001     -985024 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< -985008   T~c~
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0002     -985008 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< -984992   T~c~
  ...                               ...                                 ...
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_61564    -16 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 0             T~c~
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_61565    0 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 16              T~c~
  ...                               ...                                 ...
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_123127   984992 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 985008     T~c~
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_123128   985008 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 985024     T~c~
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_123129   985024 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~               T~c~
  --------------------------------- ----------------------------------- ------

**Table 10.1.25.3.1-6: Absolute UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement
report mapping for *k*=5**

  -------------------------------- ----------------------------------- ------
  Reported Quantity Value          Measured Quantity Value             Unit
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0000    T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< -985024             T~c~
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0001    -985024 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< -984992   T~c~
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0002    -984992 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< -984960   T~c~
  ...                              ...                                 ...
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_30782   -32 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 0             T~c~
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_30783   0 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 32              T~c~
  ...                              ...                                 ...
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_61563   984960 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 984992     T~c~
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_61564   984992 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 985024     T~c~
  RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_61565   985024 ≤ T~UE\ Rx-Tx~               T~c~
  -------------------------------- ----------------------------------- ------

##### 10.1.25.3.2 Differential UE Rx-Tx Measurement Report Mapping

The reporting range for differential UE Rx-Tx time difference
measurement (∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~) is defined from 0 up to 8191×T~c~ where:

∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ = T~UE\ Rx-Tx1~ - T~UE\ Rx-Tx2;~ where:

T~UE\ Rx-Tx1~ \> T~UE\ Rx-Tx2~,

T~UE\ Rx-Tx1~ is the first absolute UE Rx-Tx time difference
measurement,

T~UE\ Rx-Tx1~ is the second absolute UE Rx-Tx time difference
measurement,

T~c~ is defined in TS 38.211 \[6\],

*k~min~*≤*k*≤*k~max~*,

*k~min~*=\[2\] and *k~max~*=5, when at least one of the PRS and the SRS
resources configured for ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ is in FR1,

*k~min~*=0 and *k~max~*=5, when all the PRS and SRS resources configured
for ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ are in FR2,

> *k≥* *timingReportingGranularityFactor* \[34\] configured by LMF via
> LPP for the UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement.

The ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ report mapping for *k* = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 are
specified in Tables 10.1.25.3.2-1, 10.1.25.3.2-2, 10.1.25.3.2-3,
10.1.25.3.2-4, 10.1.25.3.2-5, and 10.1.25.3.2-6, respectively.

Table 10.1.25.3.2-1: Differential UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement
report mapping for *k*=0

  ------------------------------------- ------------------------------ ------
  Reported Quantity Value               Measured Quantity Value        Unit
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0000   0 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 1         T~c~
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0001   1 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 2         T~c~
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0002   2 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 3         T~c~
  ...                                   ...                            ...
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_8189   8189 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 8190   T~c~
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_8190   8190 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 8191   T~c~
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_8191   8191 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~           T~c~
  ------------------------------------- ------------------------------ ------

Table 10.1.25.3.2-2: Differential UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement
report mapping for *k*=1

  ------------------------------------- ------------------------------ ------
  Reported Quantity Value               Measured Quantity Value        Unit
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0000   0 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 2         T~c~
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0001   2 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 4         T~c~
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0002   4 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 6         T~c~
  ...                                   ...                            ...
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_4093   8186 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 8188   T~c~
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_4094   8188 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 8190   T~c~
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_4095   8190 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~           T~c~
  ------------------------------------- ------------------------------ ------

Table 10.1.25.3.2-3: Differential UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement
report mapping for *k*=2

  ------------------------------------- ------------------------------ ------
  Reported Quantity Value               Measured Quantity Value        Unit
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0000   0 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 4         T~c~
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0001   4 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 8         T~c~
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0002   8 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 12        T~c~
  ...                                   ...                            ...
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_2045   8180 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 8184   T~c~
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_2046   8184 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 8188   T~c~
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_2047   8188 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~           T~c~
  ------------------------------------- ------------------------------ ------

Table 10.1.25.3.2-4: Differential UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement
report mapping for *k*=3

  ------------------------------------- ------------------------------ ------
  Reported Quantity Value               Measured Quantity Value        Unit
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0000   0 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 8         T~c~
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0001   8 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 16        T~c~
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0002   16 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 24       T~c~
  ...                                   ...                            ...
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_1021   8168 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 8176   T~c~
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_1022   8176 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 8184   T~c~
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_1023   8184 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~           T~c~
  ------------------------------------- ------------------------------ ------

Table 10.1.25.3.2-5: Differential UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement
report mapping for *k*=4

  ------------------------------------- ------------------------------ ------
  Reported Quantity Value               Measured Quantity Value        Unit
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0000   0 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 16        T~c~
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0001   16 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 32       T~c~
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0002   32 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 48       T~c~
  ...                                   ...                            ...
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_509    8144 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 8160   T~c~
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_510    8160 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 8176   T~c~
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_511    8176 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~           T~c~
  ------------------------------------- ------------------------------ ------

Table 10.1.25.3.2-6: Differential UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement
report mapping for *k*=5

  ------------------------------------- ------------------------------ ------
  Reported Quantity Value               Measured Quantity Value        Unit
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0000   0 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 32        T~c~
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0001   32 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 64       T~c~
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_0002   64 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 96       T~c~
  ...                                   ...                            ...
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_253    8096 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 8128   T~c~
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_254    8128 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~ \< 8160   T~c~
  DIFF\_RX-TX\_TIME\_DIFFERENCE\_255    8160 ≤ ∆T~UE\ Rx-Tx~           T~c~
  ------------------------------------- ------------------------------ ------

##### 10.1.25.3.3 Additional Path Report Mapping for UE Rx-Tx Time Difference

The reporting range for the additional path reporting for an UE Rx-Tx
time difference measurement is defined up to the range from -8175×T~c~
to 8175×T~c~ with the resolution step of 2*^k^*×T~c~, where

T~c~ is defined in TS 38.211 \[6\],

*k~min~*≤*k*≤*k~max~*,

*k~min~*=\[2\] and *k~max~*=5, when at least one of the PRS resource and
SRS resource configured for the UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement is
in FR1,

*k~min~*=0 and *k~max~*=5, when both of the PRS resource and SRS
resource configured for the UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement is in
FR2,

> *k≥* *timingReportingGranularityFactor* \[34\] configured by LMF via
> LPP for the UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement.

The UE can report the timing of up to two additional paths with respect
to the path timing determining the UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement.

The report mappings for different *k* values are specified in Tables
10.1.25.3.3-1 − 10.1.25.3.3-6.

Table 10.1.25.3.3-1: Report mapping for *k*=0

+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| Reported Quantity Value, | Measured Quantity Value, | Unit |
|                          |                          |      |
| path\_i                  | ∆path                    |      |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
|                          |                          |      |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_00000              | ∆path \< -8175           | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_00001              | -8175 ≤ ∆path \< -8174   | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_00002              | -8174 ≤ ∆path \< -8173   | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| ...                      | ...                      | ...  |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_08175              | -1 ≤ ∆path \< 0          | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_08176              | 0 ≤ ∆path \< 1           | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| ...                      | ...                      | ...  |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_ 16349             | 8173 ≤ ∆path \< 8174     | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_ 16350             | 8174 ≤ ∆path \< 8175     | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_ 16351             | 8175 ≤ ∆path             | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+

Table 10.1.25.3.3-2: Report mapping for *k*=1

+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| Reported Quantity Value, | Measured Quantity Value, | Unit |
|                          |                          |      |
| path\_i                  | ∆path                    |      |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_0000               | ∆path \< -8175           | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_0001               | -8175 ≤ ∆path \< -8173   | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_0002               | -8173 ≤ ∆path \< -8171   | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| ...                      | ...                      | ...  |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_4088               | -1 ≤ ∆path \< 1          | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| ...                      | ...                      | ...  |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_**8174**           | 8171 ≤ ∆path \< 8173     | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_**8175**           | 8173 ≤ ∆path \< 8175     | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_**8176**           | 8175 ≤ ∆path             | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+

Table 10.1.25.3.3-3: Report mapping for *k*=2

+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| Reported Quantity Value, | Measured Quantity Value, | Unit |
|                          |                          |      |
| path\_i                  | ∆path                    |      |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_0000               | ∆path \< -8174           | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_0001               | -8174 ≤ ∆path \< -8170   | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_0002               | -8170 ≤ ∆path \< -8166   | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| ...                      | ...                      | ...  |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_2044               | -2 ≤ ∆path \< 2          | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| ...                      | ...                      | ...  |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_**4086**           | 8166 ≤ ∆path \< 8170     | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_**4087**           | 8170 ≤ ∆path \< 8174     | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_**4088**           | 8174 ≤ ∆path             | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+

Table 10.1.25.3.3-4: Report mapping for *k*=3

+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| Reported Quantity Value, | Measured Quantity Value, | Unit |
|                          |                          |      |
| path\_i                  | ∆path                    |      |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_0000               | ∆path \< -8172           | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_0001               | -8172 ≤ ∆path \< -8164   | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_0002               | -8164 ≤ ∆path \< -8156   | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| ...                      | ...                      | ...  |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_1022               | -4 ≤ ∆path \< 4          | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| ...                      | ...                      | ...  |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_**2042**           | 8156 ≤ ∆path \< 8164     | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_**2043**           | 8164 ≤ ∆path \< 8172     | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_**2044**           | 8172 ≤ ∆path             | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+

Table 10.1.25.3.3-5: Report mapping for *k*=4

+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| Reported Quantity Value, | Measured Quantity Value, | Unit |
|                          |                          |      |
| path\_i                  | ∆path                    |      |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_0000               | ∆path \< -8168           | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_0001               | -8168 ≤ ∆path \< -8152   | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_0002               | -8152 ≤ ∆path \< -8136   | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| ...                      | ...                      | ...  |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_511                | -8 ≤ ∆path \< 8          | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| ...                      | ...                      | ...  |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_**1020**           | 8136 ≤ ∆path \< 8152     | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_**1021**           | 8152 ≤ ∆path \< 8168     | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_**1022**           | 8168 ≤ ∆path             | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+

Table 10.1.25.3.3-6: Report mapping for *k*=5

+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| Reported Quantity Value, | Measured Quantity Value, | Unit |
|                          |                          |      |
| path\_i                  | ∆path                    |      |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_000                | ∆path \< -8160           | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_001                | -8160 ≤ ∆path \< -8128   | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_002                | -8128 ≤ ∆path \< -8096   | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| ...                      | ...                      | ...  |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_256                | 0 ≤ ∆path \< 32          | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| ...                      | ...                      | ...  |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_**509**            | 8096 ≤ ∆path \< 8128     | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_**510**            | 8128 ≤ ∆path \< 8160     | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+
| path\_**511**            | 8160 ≤ ∆path             | T~c~ |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+------+

### 10.1.26 FR2 P-MPR report

The FR2 P-MPR report mapping is defined by this clause.

#### 10.1.26.1 Report mapping

Table 10.1.26.1-1 defines the FR2 P-MPR report mapping.

Table 10.1.26.1-1 Mapping of FR2 P-MPR

  Reported value   Measured quantity value   Unit
  ---------------- ------------------------- ------
  P-MPR\_00        3 ≤ PMP-R \< 6            dB
  P-MPR\_01        6 ≤ PMP-R \< 9            dB
  P-MPR\_02        9 ≤ PMP-R \< 12           dB
  P-MPR\_03        PMP-R ≥ 12                dB

### 10.1.27 L1-SINR accuracy requirements for FR1

#### 10.1.27.1 L1-SINR accuracy requirements with CSI-RS based CMR and no dedicated IMR configured

##### 10.1.27.1.1 Absolute Accuracy

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
CSI-RS based L1-SINR in this clause apply to all CSI-RS resources
configured as CMR and no dedicated resource configured as IMR of the
serving cell configured for L1-SINR measurement.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.27.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for L1-SINR measurements are fulfilled according to Annex
B.2.8.1 for a corresponding Band for each relevant CSI-RS based CMR.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS as CMR is 48 PRBs and the density is 3.

\- AWGN radio propagation conditions.

The performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS as CMR is equal to or
better than the accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.27.1.1-1.

Table 10.1.27.1.1-1: L1-SINR absolute accuracy for CSI-RS based CMR only
in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+=====+
| N     | Ex    | C     | Io    |       |       |       |     |     |
| ormal | treme | SI-RS | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |     |
| cond  | cond  |       | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |     |
| ition | ition | CMR   | range |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       | Ê     |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       | s/Iot |       |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | S     | W~Cha | W~Cha |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | CS~CS | nnel~ | nnel~ |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | I-RS~ |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       |       | S     | S     | S     |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | CS~CS | CS~CS | CS~CS |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | I-RS~ | I-RS~ | I-RS~ |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  | = 60  |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   | kHz   |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | -115  | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 | 114.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | -114  | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| ±5.5  | ±6.5  | ≥-3   | N     | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 | 113.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | -113  | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 | 112.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | -112  | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 | 111.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 2: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+

##### 10.1.27.1.2 Relative Accuracy

The relative accuracy of CSI-RS based L1-SINR is defined as the L1-SINR
measured from one CSI-RS compared to the largest measured value of
L1-SINR among all CSI-RS resources of the serving cell.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.27.1.2-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for L1-SINR measurements are fulfilled according to Annex
B.2 for a corresponding Band for each relevant CSI-RS based CMR.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS is 48 PRBs and the density is 3.

\- AWGN radio propagation conditions.

The performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS as CMR is equal to or
better than the accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.27.1.2-1.

Table 10.1.27.1.2-1: L1-SINR relative accuracy for CSI-RS based CMR only
in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+=====+
| N     | Ex    | C     | Io    |       |       |       |     |     |
| ormal | treme | SI-RS | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |     |
| cond  | cond  |       | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |     |
| ition | ition | CMR   | range |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       | Ê     |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       | s/Iot |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | S     | W~Cha | W~Cha |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | CS~CS | nnel~ | nnel~ |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | I-RS~ |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       |       | S     | S     | S     |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | CS~CS | CS~CS | CS~CS |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | I-RS~ | I-RS~ | I-RS~ |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  | = 60  |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   | kHz   |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | -115  | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 | 114.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | -114  | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| ±\[   | ±\[   | ≥-3   | N     | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -50 |
| 4.5\] | 5.5\] |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 | 113.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | -113  | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 | 112.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | -112  | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 | 111.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| para  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| meter |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| C     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| CMR   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| CMR   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| CMR   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| pair  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| C     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| reso  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| urces |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| which |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| app   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| lies. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 3: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+

#### 10.1.27.2 L1-SINR accuracy requirements with SSB based CMR and dedicated IMR configured

##### 10.1.27.2.1 Absolute Accuracy

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
SSB based L1-SINR in this clause apply to all SSBs configured as CMR and
dedicated resources configured as IMR of the serving cell configured for
L1-SINR measurement.

The accuracy requirements are defined in Table 10.1.27.2.1-1 for SSB
based CMR and NZP-IMR and in Table 10.1.27.2.1-2 for SSB based CMR and
ZP-IMR.

The accuracy requirements in Tables 10.1.27.2.1-1 and 10.1.27.2.1-2 are
valid under the following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for L1-SINR measurements are fulfilled according to Annex
B.2.8.2 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB based CMR and
IMR.

\- The bandwidth of NZP-IMR and ZP-IMR is 48 PRBs and the density is 3.

\- AWGN radio propagation conditions.

The performance with larger bandwidth of NZP-IMR and ZP-IMR is equal to
or better than the accuracy requirements in Tables 10.1.27.2.1-1 and
10.1.27.2.1-2.

Table 10.1.27.2.1-1: L1-SINR absolute accuracy for SSB based CMR and
NZP-IMR in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+
| N     | Ex    | SSB-  | NZ    | Io    |       |       |       |     |
| ormal | treme |       | P-IMR | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |
| cond  | cond  | CMR   |       | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |
| ition | ition |       | Ê     | range |       |       |       |     |
|       |       | Ê     | s/Iot |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       | s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |     |
|       |       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |     |
|       |       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| ±4.0  | ±5.0  | ≥0    | ≥0    | N     | -     | -     | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 2: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+

Table 10.1.27.2.1-2: L1-SINR absolute accuracy for SSB based CMR and
ZP-IMR in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+
| N     | Ex    | SSB-  | Io    |       |       |       |     |
| ormal | treme |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |
| cond  | cond  | CMR   | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |
| ition | ition |       | range |       |       |       |     |
|       |       | Ê     |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       | s/Iot |       |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |     |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |     |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |     |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |     |
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |     |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| ±4.5  | ±5.5  | ≥-3   | N     | -     | -     | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 2: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+

##### 10.1.27.2.2 Relative Accuracy

The relative accuracy of SSB based L1-SINR is defined as the L1-SINR
measured from one SSB configured as CMR and one IMR configured as IMR
compared to the largest measured value of L1-SINR among all SSBs and
IMRs of the serving cell.

The accuracy requirements are defined in Table 10.1.27.2.2-1 for SSB
based CMR and NZP-IMR and in Table 10.1.27.2.2-2 for SSB based CMR and
ZP-IMR.

The accuracy requirements in Tables 10.1.27.2.2-1 and 10.1.27.2.2-2 are
valid under the following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for L1-SINR measurements are fulfilled according to Annex
B.2.8.2 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB based CMR and
IMR.

\- The bandwidth of NZP-IMR and ZP-IMR is 48 PRBs and the density is 3.

\- AWGN radio propagation conditions.

The performance with larger bandwidth of NZP-IMR and ZP-IMR is equal to
or better than the accuracy requirements in Tables 10.1.27.2.2-1 and
10.1.27.2.2-2.

Table 10.1.27.2.2-1: L1-SINR relative accuracy for SSB based CMR and
NZP-IMR in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+
| N     | Ex    | SSB-  | NZ    | Io    |       |       |       |     |
| ormal | treme |       | P-IMR | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |
| cond  | cond  | CMR   |       | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |
| ition | ition |       | Ê     | range |       |       |       |     |
|       |       | Ê     | s/Iot |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       | s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | e\ 3^ |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |     |
|       |       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |     |
|       |       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| ±\[   | ±\[   | ≥0    | ≥0    | N     | -     | -     | N/A   | -50 |
| 3.0\] | 4.0\] |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| para  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| meter |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| CMR   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| CMR   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| pair  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| SSBs  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| which |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| app   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| lies. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 3: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+

Table 10.1.27.2.2-2: L1-SINR relative accuracy for SSB based CMR and
ZP-IMR in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+
| N     | Ex    | SSB-  | Io    |       |       |       |     |
| ormal | treme |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |
| cond  | cond  | CMR   | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |
| ition | ition |       | range |       |       |       |     |
|       |       | Ê     |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       | s/Iot |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |     |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |     |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |     |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | e\ 3^ |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |     |
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |     |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| ±\[   | ±\[   | ≥-3   | N     | -     | -     | N/A   | -50 |
| 3.5\] | 4.5\] |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| para  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| meter |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| CMR   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| CMR   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| pair  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| SSBs  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| which |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| app   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| lies. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 3: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+

#### 10.1.27.3 L1-SINR accuracy requirements with CSI-RS based CMR and dedicated IMR configured

##### 10.1.27.3.1 Absolute Accuracy

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
CSI-RS based L1-SINR in this clause apply to all CSI-RS resources
configured as CMR and dedicated resources configured as IMR of the
serving cell configured for L1-SINR measurement.

The accuracy requirements are defined in Table 10.1.27.3.1-1 for CSI-RS
based CMR and NZP-IMR and in Table 10.1.27.3.1-2 for CSI-RS based CMR
and ZP-IMR.

The accuracy requirements in Tables 10.1.27.3.1-1 and 10.1.27.3.1-2 are
valid under the following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for L1-SINR measurements are fulfilled according to Annex
B.2.8.3 for a corresponding Band for each relevant CSI-RS based CMR and
IMR.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS as CMR, NZP-IMR and ZP-IMR is 48 PRBs and the
density is 3.

\- AWGN radio propagation conditions.

The performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS as CMR, NZP-IMR and
ZP-IMR is equal to or better than the accuracy requirements in Tables
10.1.27.3.1-1 and 10.1.27.3.1-2.

Table 10.1.27.3.1-1: L1-SINR absolute accuracy for CSI-RS based CMR and
NZP-IMR in FR1

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Accuracy</th>
<th>Conditions</th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Normal condition</td>
<td>Extreme condition</td>
<td><p>CSI-RS</p>
<p>CMR Ês/Iot <sup>Note 2</sup></p></td>
<td><p>NZP-IMR</p>
<p>Ês/Iot</p></td>
<td>Io <sup>Note 1</sup> range</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR operating band groups <sup>Note 3</sup></td>
<td>Minimum Io</td>
<td>Maximum Io</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>dB</td>
<td>dB</td>
<td>dB</td>
<td>dB</td>
<td></td>
<td>dBm / SCS<sub>CSI-RS</sub></td>
<td>dBm/BW<sub>Channel</sub></td>
<td>dBm/BW<sub>Channel</sub></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>SCS<sub>CSI-RS</sub> = 15 kHz</td>
<td>SCS<sub>CSI-RS</sub> = 30 kHz</td>
<td>SCS<sub>CSI-RS</sub> = 60 kHz</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>NR_FDD_FR1_A, NR_TDD_FR1_A,</p>
<p>NR_SDL_FR1_A</p></td>
<td>-121</td>
<td>-118</td>
<td>-115</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR_FDD_FR1_B</td>
<td>-120.5</td>
<td>-117.5</td>
<td>-114.5</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR_TDD_FR1_C</td>
<td>-120</td>
<td>-117</td>
<td>-114</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>±4.0</td>
<td>±5.0</td>
<td>≥0</td>
<td>≥0</td>
<td>NR_FDD_FR1_D, NR_TDD_FR1_D</td>
<td>-119.5</td>
<td>-116.5</td>
<td>-113.5</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR_FDD_FR1_E, NR_TDD_FR1_E</td>
<td>-119</td>
<td>-116</td>
<td>-113</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR_FDD_FR1_F</td>
<td>-118.5</td>
<td>-115.5</td>
<td>-112.5</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR_FDD_FR1_G</td>
<td>-118</td>
<td>-115</td>
<td>-112</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR_FDD_FR1_H</td>
<td>-117.5</td>
<td>-114.5</td>
<td>-111.5</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>NOTE 1: Io is assumed to have constant EPRE across the bandwidth.</p>
<p>NOTE 2: NR operating band groups in FR1 are as defined in clause 3.5.2.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 10.1.27.3.1-2: L1-SINR absolute accuracy for CSI-RS based CMR and
ZP-IMR in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+=====+
| N     | Ex    | C     | Io    |       |       |       |     |     |
| ormal | treme | SI-RS | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |     |
| cond  | cond  |       | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |     |
| ition | ition | CMR   | range |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       | Ê     |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       | s/Iot |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | e\ 3^ |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | S     | W~Cha | W~Cha |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | CS~CS | nnel~ | nnel~ |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | I-RS~ |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       |       | S     | S     | S     |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | CS~CS | CS~CS | CS~CS |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | I-RS~ | I-RS~ | I-RS~ |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  | = 60  |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   | kHz   |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | -115  | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 | 114.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | -114  | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| ±4.5  | ±5.5  | ≥-3   | N     | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 | 113.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | -113  | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 | 112.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | -112  | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 | 111.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 2: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+

##### 10.1.27.3.2 Relative Accuracy

The relative accuracy of CSI-RS based L1-SINR is defined as the L1-SINR
measured from one CSI-RS configured as CMR and one IMR configured as IMR
compared to the largest measured value of L1-SINR among all CSI-RS and
IMR resources of the serving cell.

The accuracy requirements are defined in Table 10.1.27.3.2-1 for CSI-RS
based CMR and NZP-IMR and in Table 10.1.27.3.2-2 for CSI-RS based CMR
and ZP-IMR.

The accuracy requirements in Tables 10.1.27.3.2-1 and 10.1.27.3.2-2 are
valid under the following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for L1-SINR measurements are fulfilled according to Annex
B.2 for a corresponding Band for each relevant CSI-RS based CMR and IMR.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS as CMR, NZP-IMR and ZP-IMR is 48 PRBs and the
density is 3.

\- An AWGN channel.

The performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS as CMR, NZP-IMR and
ZP-IMR is equal to or better than the accuracy requirements in Tables
10.1.27.3.2-1 and 10.1.27.3.2-2.

Table 10.1.27.3.2-1: L1-SINR relative accuracy for CSI-RS based CMR and
NZP-IMR in FR1

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Accuracy</th>
<th>Conditions</th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Normal condition</td>
<td>Extreme condition</td>
<td><p>CSI-RS</p>
<p>CMR Ês/Iot</p></td>
<td><p>NZP-IMR</p>
<p>Ês/Iot</p></td>
<td>Io <sup>Note 1</sup> range</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR operating band groups <sup>Note 2</sup></td>
<td>Minimum Io</td>
<td>Maximum Io</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>dB</td>
<td>dB</td>
<td>dB</td>
<td>dB</td>
<td></td>
<td>dBm / SCS<sub>CSI-RS</sub></td>
<td>dBm/BW<sub>Channel</sub></td>
<td>dBm/BW<sub>Channel</sub></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>SCS<sub>CSI-RS</sub> = 15 kHz</td>
<td>SCS<sub>CSI-RS</sub> = 30 kHz</td>
<td>SCS<sub>CSI-RS</sub> = 60 kHz</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>NR_FDD_FR1_A, NR_TDD_FR1_A,</p>
<p>NR_SDL_FR1_A</p></td>
<td>-121</td>
<td>-118</td>
<td>-115</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR_FDD_FR1_B</td>
<td>-120.5</td>
<td>-117.5</td>
<td>-114.5</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR_TDD_FR1_C</td>
<td>-120</td>
<td>-117</td>
<td>-114</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>±[3.0]</td>
<td>±[4.0]</td>
<td>≥0</td>
<td>≥0</td>
<td>NR_FDD_FR1_D, NR_TDD_FR1_D</td>
<td>-119.5</td>
<td>-116.5</td>
<td>-113.5</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR_FDD_FR1_E, NR_TDD_FR1_E</td>
<td>-119</td>
<td>-116</td>
<td>-113</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR_FDD_FR1_F</td>
<td>-118.5</td>
<td>-115.5</td>
<td>-112.5</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR_FDD_FR1_G</td>
<td>-118</td>
<td>-115</td>
<td>-112</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>NR_FDD_FR1_H</td>
<td>-117.5</td>
<td>-114.5</td>
<td>-111.5</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>-50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>NOTE 1: Io is assumed to have constant EPRE across the bandwidth.</p>
<p>NOTE 2: The parameter CSI-RS CMR Ês/Iot is the minimum CMR CMR Ês/Iot of the pair of CSI-RS resources to which the requirement applies.</p>
<p>NOTE 3: NR operating band groups in FR1 are as defined in clause 3.5.2.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 10.1.27.3.2-2: L1-SINR relative accuracy for CSI-RS based CMR and
ZP-IMR in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+=====+
| N     | Ex    | C     | Io    |       |       |       |     |     |
| ormal | treme | SI-RS | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |     |
| cond  | cond  |       | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |     |
| ition | ition | CMR   | range |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       | Ê     |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       | s/Iot |       |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | S     | W~Cha | W~Cha |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | CS~CS | nnel~ | nnel~ |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | I-RS~ |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       |       | S     | S     | S     |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | CS~CS | CS~CS | CS~CS |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | I-RS~ | I-RS~ | I-RS~ |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  | = 60  |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   | kHz   |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -121  | -118  | -115  | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | N     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_A, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_S |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DL\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_A |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 | 114.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -120  | -117  | -114  | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_C |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| ±\[   | ±\[   | ≥-3   | N     | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -50 |
| 3.5\] | 4.5\] |       | R\_FD | 119.5 | 116.5 | 113.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_D, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_D |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | N     | -119  | -116  | -113  | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_FD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_E, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_E |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 118.5 | 115.5 | 112.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -118  | -115  | -112  | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_G |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_F | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 117.5 | 114.5 | 111.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_H |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| para  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| meter |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| C     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| CMR   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| CMR   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| CMR   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| pair  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| C     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| reso  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| urces |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| which |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| app   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| lies. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 2: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+

### 10.1.28 L1-SINR accuracy requirements for FR2

#### 10.1.28.1 L1-SINR accuracy requirements with CSI-RS based CMR and no dedicated IMR configured

##### 10.1.28.1.1 Absolute Accuracy

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
CSI-RS based L1-SINR in this clause apply to all CSI-RS resources
configured as CMR and no dedicated resource configured as IMR of the
serving cell configured for L1-SINR measurement.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.28.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for L1-SINR measurements are fulfilled according to Annex
B.2.8.1 for a corresponding Band for each relevant CSI-RS based CMR.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS as CMR is 48 PRBs and the density is 3.

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the percentile
EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4 of TS 38.101-2
\[19\].

\- AWGN radio propagation conditions.

The performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS as CMR is equal to or
better than the accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.28.1.1-1.

Table 10.1.28.1.1-1: L1-SINR absolute accuracy for CSI-RS based CMR only
in FR2

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| Accuracy | Co       |          |          |          |          |   |
|          | nditions |          |          |          |          |   |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+===+
| Normal   | Extreme  | CSI-RS   | Io       |          |          |   |
| c        | c        |          | ^        |          |          |   |
| ondition | ondition | CMR      | Note\ 1^ |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | range    |          |          |   |
|          |          | Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |   |
|          |          | ^        |          |          |          |   |
|          |          | Note\ 3^ |          |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          |          | Minimum  | Maximum  |          |   |
|          |          |          | Io       | Io       |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| dB       | dB       | dB       | dBm /    | dBm/BW~  | dBm/BW~  |   |
|          |          |          | SCS      | Channel~ | Channel~ |   |
|          |          |          | ~CSI-RS~ |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | ^        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | Note\ 2^ |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          |          | SCS      | SCS      |          |   |
|          |          |          | ~CSI-RS~ | ~CSI-RS~ |          |   |
|          |          |          | = 60kHz  | = 120kHz |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| ±5.5     | ±6.5     | ≥-3      | Same     | N/A      | -50      |   |
|          |          |          | value as |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | CS       |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | I-RS\_RP |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | in Table |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | in       |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | B.2.8.1, |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | a        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | ccording |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | to UE    |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | Power    |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | class,   |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | o        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | perating |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | band and |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | angle of |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | arrival  |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Io       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pecified |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| at the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| R        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| eference |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| point,   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| assumed  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to have  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| constant |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| EPRE     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| across   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ba       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ndwidth. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Values   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| based on |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Refsens  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and EIS  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pherical |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| coverage |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| as       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| in       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| clauses  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 7.3.2    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 7.3.4 of |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| TS       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 38.101-2 |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| \[19\].  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| side     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| c        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ondition |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| selected |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| d        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| epending |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| on angle |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| of       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| arrival. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| NOTE 3:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| In the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| test     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| cases,   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| CSI-RS   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| CMR      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| related  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pa       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| rameters |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| may need |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to be    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| adjusted |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ensure   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| at UE    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| baseband |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| is above |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| value    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| in this  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| table.   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+

##### 10.1.28.1.2 Relative Accuracy

The relative accuracy of CSI-RS based L1-SINR is defined as the L1-SINR
measured from one CSI-RS compared to the largest measured value of
L1-SINR among all CSI-RS resources of the serving cell.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.28.1.2-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for L1-SINR measurements are fulfilled according to Annex
B.2.8.1 for a corresponding Band for each relevant CSI-RS based CMR.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS as CMR is 48 PRBs and the density is 3.

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the percentile
EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4 of TS 38.101-2
\[19\].

\- AWGN radio propagation conditions.

The performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS as CMR is equal to or
better than the accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.28.1.2-1.

Table 10.1.28.1.2-1: L1-SINR relative accuracy for CSI-RS based CMR only
in FR2

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| Accuracy | Co       |          |          |          |          |   |
|          | nditions |          |          |          |          |   |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+===+
| Normal   | Extreme  | CSI-RS   | Io       |          |          |   |
| c        | c        |          | ^        |          |          |   |
| ondition | ondition | CMR      | Note\ 1^ |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | range    |          |          |   |
|          |          | Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |   |
|          |          | ^No      |          |          |          |   |
|          |          | te\ 2,\  |          |          |          |   |
|          |          | Note\ 4^ |          |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          |          | Minimum  | Maximum  |          |   |
|          |          |          | Io       | Io       |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| dB       | dB       | dB       | dBm /    | dBm/BW~  | dBm/BW~  |   |
|          |          |          | SCS      | Channel~ | Channel~ |   |
|          |          |          | ~CSI-RS~ |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | ^        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | Note\ 3^ |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          |          | SCS      | SCS      |          |   |
|          |          |          | ~CSI-RS~ | ~CSI-RS~ |          |   |
|          |          |          | = 60kHz  | = 120kHz |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| ±4.5     | ±5.5     | ≥-3      | Same     | N/A      | -50      |   |
|          |          |          | value as |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | CS       |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | I-RS\_RP |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | in Table |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | in       |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | B.2.8.1, |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | a        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | ccording |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | to UE    |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | Power    |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | class,   |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | o        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | perating |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | band and |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | angle of |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | arrival  |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Io       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pecified |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| at the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| R        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| eference |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| point,   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| assumed  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to have  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| constant |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| EPRE     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| across   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ba       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ndwidth. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| The      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| p        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| arameter |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| CSI-RS   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| CMR      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| is the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| minimum  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| CSI-RS   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| CMR      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| of the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pair of  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| CSI-RS   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| r        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| esources |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to which |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| req      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| uirement |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| applies. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| NOTE 3:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Values   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| based on |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Refsens  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and EIS  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pherical |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| coverage |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| as       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| in       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| clauses  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 7.3.2    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 7.3.4 of |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| TS       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 38.101-2 |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| \[19\].  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| side     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| c        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ondition |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| selected |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| d        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| epending |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| on angle |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| of       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| arrival. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| NOTE 4:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| In the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| test     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| cases,   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| CSI-RS   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| CMR      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| related  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pa       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| rameters |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| may need |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to be    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| adjusted |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ensure   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| at UE    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| baseband |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| is above |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| value    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| in this  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| table.   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+

#### 10.1.28.2 L1-SINR accuracy requirements with SSB based CMR and dedicated IMR configured

##### 10.1.28.2.1 Absolute Accuracy

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
SSB based L1-SINR in this clause apply to all SSBs configured as CMR and
dedicated resources configured as IMR of the serving cell configured for
L1-SINR measurement.

The accuracy requirements are defined in Table 10.1.28.2.1-1 for SSB
based CMR and NZP-IMR and in Table 10.1.28.2.1-2 for SSB based CMR and
ZP-IMR.

The accuracy requirements in Tables 10.1.28.2.1-1 and 10.1.28.2.1-2 are
valid under the following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for L1-SINR measurements are fulfilled according to Annex
B.2.8.2 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB based CMR and
IMR.

\- The bandwidth of NZP-IMR and ZP-IMR is 48 PRBs and the density is 3.

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the percentile
EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4 of TS 38.101-2
\[19\].

\- AWGN radio propagation conditions.

\- SSB based CMR and IMR in the test come from the same direction.

The performance with larger bandwidth of NZP-IMR and ZP-IMR is equal to
or better than the accuracy requirements in Tables 10.1.28.2.1-1 and
10.1.28.2.1-2.

Table 10.1.28.2.1-1: L1-SINR absolute accuracy for SSB based CMR and
NZP-IMR in FR2

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |   |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+===+
| N     | Ex    | SSB   | NZ    | Io    |       |       |   |
| ormal | treme |       | P-IMR | ^Not  |       |       |   |
| cond  | cond  | CMR   |       | e\ 1^ |       |       |   |
| ition | ition |       | Ê     | range |       |       |   |
|       |       | Ê     | s/Iot |       |       |       |   |
|       |       | s/Iot | ^Not  |       |       |       |   |
|       |       | ^Not  | e\ 3^ |       |       |       |   |
|       |       | e\ 3^ |       |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       |       | Mi    | Ma    |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | nimum | ximum |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | Io    | Io    |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |   |
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |   |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |   |
|       |       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | =     | =     |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 1     | 2     |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 20kHz | 40kHz |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| ±4.0  | ±5.0  | ≥0    | ≥0    | Same  | N/A   | -50   |   |
|       |       |       |       | value |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | as    |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | SS    |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | B\_RP |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | in    |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | Table |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | in    |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | B.2   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | .8.2, |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | acco  |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | rding |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | to UE |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | Power |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | c     |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | lass, |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | oper  |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ating |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | band  |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | angle |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | of    |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ar    |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | rival |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| spec  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ified |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| at    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Refe  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| rence |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| p     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| oint, |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| V     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| alues |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| based |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| on    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| fsens |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| EIS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| sphe  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| rical |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cov   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| erage |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cl    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| auses |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 7.3.2 |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 7.3.4 |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| of TS |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 38.   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 101-2 |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| \[    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 19\]. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Appli |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cable |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| side  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cond  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ition |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| sel   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ected |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| depe  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| on    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| angle |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| arr   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ival. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 3: In |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ases, |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Ês    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| /Iot, |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| NZ    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| P-IMR |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| lated |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| param |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| eters |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| may   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| need  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| to be |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| adj   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| usted |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| e     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| nsure |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| at UE |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| bas   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| eband |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| above |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| value |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| able. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+

Table 10.1.28.2.1-2: L1-SINR absolute accuracy for SSB based CMR and
ZP-IMR in FR2

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| Accuracy | Co       |          |          |          |          |   |
|          | nditions |          |          |          |          |   |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+===+
| Normal   | Extreme  | SSB      | Io       |          |          |   |
| c        | c        |          | ^        |          |          |   |
| ondition | ondition | CMR      | Note\ 1^ |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | range    |          |          |   |
|          |          | Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |   |
|          |          | ^        |          |          |          |   |
|          |          | Note\ 3^ |          |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          |          | Minimum  | Maximum  |          |   |
|          |          |          | Io       | Io       |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| dB       | dB       | dB       | dBm /    | dBm/BW~  | dBm/BW~  |   |
|          |          |          | SCS~SSB~ | Channel~ | Channel~ |   |
|          |          |          | ^        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | Note\ 2^ |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          |          | SCS~SSB~ | SCS~SSB~ |          |   |
|          |          |          | = 120kHz | = 240kHz |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| ±4.5     | ±5.5     | ≥-3      | Same     | N/A      | -50      |   |
|          |          |          | value as |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | SSB\_RP  |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | in Table |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | in       |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | B.2.8.2, |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | a        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | ccording |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | to UE    |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | Power    |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | class,   |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | o        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | perating |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | band and |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | angle of |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | arrival  |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Io       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pecified |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| at the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| R        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| eference |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| point,   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| assumed  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to have  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| constant |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| EPRE     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| across   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ba       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ndwidth. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Values   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| based on |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Refsens  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and EIS  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pherical |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| coverage |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| as       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| in       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| clauses  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 7.3.2    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 7.3.4 of |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| TS       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 38.101-2 |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| \[19\].  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| side     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| c        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ondition |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| selected |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| d        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| epending |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| on angle |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| of       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| arrival. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| NOTE 3:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| In the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| test     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| cases,   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the SSB  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| CMR      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| related  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pa       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| rameters |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| may need |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to be    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| adjusted |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ensure   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| at UE    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| baseband |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| is above |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| value    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| in this  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| table.   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+

##### 10.1.28.2.2 Relative Accuracy

The relative accuracy of SSB based L1-SINR is defined as the L1-SINR
measured from one SSB configured as CMR and one IMR configured as IMR
compared to the largest measured value of L1-SINR among all SSB based
CMRs and IMRs of the serving cell.

The accuracy requirements are defined in Table 10.1.28.2.2-1 for SSB
based CMR and NZP-IMR and in Table 10.1.28.2.2-2 for SSB based CMR and
ZP-IMR.

The accuracy requirements in Tables 10.1.28.2.2-1 and 10.1.28.2.2-2 are
valid under the following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for L1-SINR measurements are fulfilled according to Annex
B.2.8.2 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB based CMR and
IMR.

\- The bandwidth of NZP-IMR and ZP-IMR is 48 PRBs and the density is 3.

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the percentile
EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4 of TS 38.101-2
\[19\].

\- AWGN radio propagation conditions.

\- SSB based CMR and IMR in the test come from the same direction.

The performance with larger bandwidth of NZP-IMR and ZP-IMR is equal to
or better than the accuracy requirements in Tables 10.1.28.2.2-1 and
10.1.28.2.2-2.

Table 10.1.28.2.2-1: L1-SINR relative accuracy for SSB based CMR and
NZP-IMR in FR2

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |   |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+===+
| N     | Ex    | SSB   | NZ    | Io    |       |       |   |
| ormal | treme |       | P-IMR | ^Not  |       |       |   |
| cond  | cond  | CMR   |       | e\ 1^ |       |       |   |
| ition | ition |       | Ê     | range |       |       |   |
|       |       | Ê     | s/Iot |       |       |       |   |
|       |       | s/Iot | ^Not  |       |       |       |   |
|       |       | ^Not  | e\ 4^ |       |       |       |   |
|       |       | e\ 2, |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       | \ Not |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       | e\ 4^ |       |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       |       | Mi    | Ma    |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | nimum | ximum |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | Io    | Io    |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |   |
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |   |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |   |
|       |       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | e\ 3^ |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | =     | =     |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 1     | 2     |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 20kHz | 40kHz |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| ±3.0  | ±4.0  | ≥0    | ≥0    | Same  | N/A   | -50   |   |
|       |       |       |       | value |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | as    |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | SS    |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | B\_RP |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | in    |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | Table |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | in    |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | B.2   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | .8.2, |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | acco  |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | rding |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | to UE |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | Power |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | c     |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | lass, |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | oper  |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ating |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | band  |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | angle |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | of    |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ar    |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | rival |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| spec  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ified |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| at    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Refe  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| rence |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| p     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| oint, |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| para  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| meter |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| CMR   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| CMR   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| pair  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| SSBs  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| which |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| app   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| lies. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| V     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| alues |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| based |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| on    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| fsens |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| EIS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| sphe  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| rical |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cov   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| erage |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cl    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| auses |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 7.3.2 |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 7.3.4 |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| of TS |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 38.   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 101-2 |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| \[    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 19\]. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Appli |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cable |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| side  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cond  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ition |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| sel   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ected |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| depe  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| on    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| angle |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| arr   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ival. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 4: In |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ases, |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| CMR   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Ês    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| /Iot, |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| NZ    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| P-IMR |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| lated |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| param |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| eters |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| may   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| need  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| to be |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| adj   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| usted |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| e     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| nsure |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| at UE |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| bas   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| eband |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| above |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| value |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| able. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+

Table 10.1.28.2.2-2: L1-SINR relative accuracy for SSB based CMR and
ZP-IMR in FR2

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| Accuracy | Co       |          |          |          |          |   |
|          | nditions |          |          |          |          |   |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+===+
| Normal   | Extreme  | SSB      | Io       |          |          |   |
| c        | c        |          | ^        |          |          |   |
| ondition | ondition | CMR      | Note\ 1^ |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | range    |          |          |   |
|          |          | Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |   |
|          |          | ^No      |          |          |          |   |
|          |          | te\ 2,\  |          |          |          |   |
|          |          | Note\ 4^ |          |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          |          | Minimum  | Maximum  |          |   |
|          |          |          | Io       | Io       |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| dB       | dB       | dB       | dBm /    | dBm/BW~  | dBm/BW~  |   |
|          |          |          | SCS~SSB~ | Channel~ | Channel~ |   |
|          |          |          | ^        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | Note\ 3^ |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          |          | SCS~SSB~ | SCS~SSB~ |          |   |
|          |          |          | = 120kHz | = 240kHz |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| ±3.5     | ±4.5     | ≥-3      | Same     | N/A      | -50      |   |
|          |          |          | value as |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | SSB\_RP  |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | in Table |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | in       |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | B.2.8.2, |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | a        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | ccording |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | to UE    |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | Power    |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | class,   |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | o        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | perating |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | band and |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | angle of |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | arrival  |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Io       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pecified |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| at the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| R        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| eference |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| point,   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| assumed  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to have  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| constant |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| EPRE     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| across   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ba       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ndwidth. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| The      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| p        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| arameter |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| SSB CMR  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| is the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| minimum  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| SSB CMR  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| of the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pair of  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| SSBs to  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| which    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| req      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| uirement |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| applies. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| NOTE 3:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Values   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| based on |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Refsens  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and EIS  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pherical |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| coverage |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| as       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| in       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| clauses  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 7.3.2    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 7.3.4 of |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| TS       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 38.101-2 |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| \[19\].  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| side     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| c        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ondition |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| selected |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| d        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| epending |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| on angle |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| of       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| arrival. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| NOTE 4:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| In the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| test     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| cases,   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the SSB  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| CMR      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| related  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pa       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| rameters |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| may need |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to be    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| adjusted |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ensure   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| at UE    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| baseband |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| is above |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| value    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| in this  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| table.   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+

#### 10.1.28.3 L1-SINR accuracy requirements with CSI-RS based CMR and dedicated IMR configured

##### 10.1.28.3.1 Absolute Accuracy

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
CSI-RS based L1-SINR in this clause apply to all CSI-RS resources as CMR
and dedicated resources configured as IMR of the serving cell configured
for L1-SINR measurement.

The accuracy requirements are defined in Table 10.1.28.3.1-1 for CSI-RS
based CMR and NZP-IMR and in Table 10.1.28.3.1-2 for CSI-RS based CMR
and ZP-IMR.

The accuracy requirements in Tables 10.1.28.3.1-1 and 10.1.28.3.1-2 are
valid under the following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for L1-SINR measurements are fulfilled according to Annex
B.2.8.3 for a corresponding Band for each relevant CSI-RS based CMR and
IMR.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS as CMR, NZP-IMR and ZP-IMR is 48 PRBs and the
density is 3.

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the percentile
EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4 of TS 38.101-2
\[19\].

\- AWGN radio propagation conditions.

\- CSI-RS based CMR and IMR in the test come from the same direction.

The performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS as CMR, NZP-IMR and
ZP-IMR is equal to or better than the accuracy requirements in Tables
10.1.28.3.1-1 and 10.1.28.3.1-2.

Table 10.1.28.3.1-1: L1-SINR absolute accuracy for CSI-RS based CMR and
NZP-IMR in FR2

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |   |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+===+
| N     | Ex    | C     | NZ    | Io    |       |       |   |
| ormal | treme | SI-RS | P-IMR | ^Not  |       |       |   |
| cond  | cond  | CMR   |       | e\ 1^ |       |       |   |
| ition | ition | Ê     | Ê     | range |       |       |   |
|       |       | s/Iot | s/Iot |       |       |       |   |
|       |       | ^Not  | ^Not  |       |       |       |   |
|       |       | e\ 3^ | e\ 3^ |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       |       | Mi    | Ma    |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | nimum | ximum |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | Io    | Io    |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |   |
|       |       |       |       | S     | W~Cha | W~Cha |   |
|       |       |       |       | CS~CS | nnel~ | nnel~ |   |
|       |       |       |       | I-RS~ |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       |       | S     | S     |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | CS~CS | CS~CS |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | I-RS~ | I-RS~ |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | =     | =     |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 60kHz | 1     |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | 20kHz |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| ±4.0  | ±5.0  | ≥0    | ≥0    | Same  | N/A   | -50   |   |
|       |       |       |       | value |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | as    |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | CSI-R |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | S\_RP |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | in    |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | Table |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | in    |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | B.2   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | .8.3, |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | acco  |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | rding |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | to UE |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | Power |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | c     |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | lass, |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | oper  |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ating |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | band  |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | angle |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | of    |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ar    |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | rival |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| spec  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ified |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| at    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Refe  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| rence |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| p     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| oint, |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| V     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| alues |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| based |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| on    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| fsens |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| EIS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| sphe  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| rical |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cov   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| erage |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cl    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| auses |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 7.3.2 |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 7.3.4 |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| of TS |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 38.   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 101-2 |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| \[    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 19\]. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Appli |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cable |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| side  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cond  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ition |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| sel   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ected |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| depe  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| on    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| angle |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| arr   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ival. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 3: In |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ases, |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| C     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Ês    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| /Iot, |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| NZ    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| P-IMR |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| lated |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| param |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| eters |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| may   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| need  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| to be |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| adj   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| usted |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| e     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| nsure |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| at UE |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| bas   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| eband |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| above |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| value |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| able. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+

Table 10.1.28.3.1-2: L1-SINR absolute accuracy for CSI-RS based CMR and
ZP-IMR in FR2

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| Accuracy | Co       |          |          |          |          |   |
|          | nditions |          |          |          |          |   |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+===+
| Normal   | Extreme  | CSI-RS   | Io       |          |          |   |
| c        | c        | CMR      | ^        |          |          |   |
| ondition | ondition | Ês/Iot   | Note\ 1^ |          |          |   |
|          |          | ^        | range    |          |          |   |
|          |          | Note\ 3^ |          |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          |          | Minimum  | Maximum  |          |   |
|          |          |          | Io       | Io       |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| dB       | dB       | dB       | dBm /    | dBm/BW~  | dBm/BW~  |   |
|          |          |          | SCS      | Channel~ | Channel~ |   |
|          |          |          | ~CSI-RS~ |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | ^        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | Note\ 2^ |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          |          | SCS      | SCS      |          |   |
|          |          |          | ~CSI-RS~ | ~CSI-RS~ |          |   |
|          |          |          | = 60kHz  | = 120kHz |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| ±4.5     | ±5.5     | ≥-3      | Same     | N/A      | -50      |   |
|          |          |          | value as |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | CS       |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | I-RS\_RP |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | in Table |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | in       |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | B.2.8.3, |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | a        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | ccording |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | to UE    |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | Power    |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | class,   |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | o        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | perating |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | band and |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | angle of |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | arrival  |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Io       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pecified |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| at the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| R        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| eference |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| point,   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| assumed  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to have  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| constant |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| EPRE     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| across   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ba       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ndwidth. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Values   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| based on |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Refsens  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and EIS  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pherical |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| coverage |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| as       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| in       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| clauses  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 7.3.2    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 7.3.4 of |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| TS       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 38.101-2 |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| \[19\].  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| side     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| c        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ondition |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| selected |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| d        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| epending |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| on angle |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| of       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| arrival. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| NOTE 3:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| In the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| test     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| cases,   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| CSI-RS   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| related  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pa       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| rameters |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| may need |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to be    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| adjusted |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ensure   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| at UE    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| baseband |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| is above |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| value    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| in this  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| table.   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+

##### 10.1.28.3.2 Relative Accuracy

The relative accuracy of CSI-RS based L1-SINR is defined as the L1-SINR
measured from one CSI-RS configured as CMR and one IMR configured as IMR
compared to the largest measured value of L1-SINR among all CSI-RS based
CMRs and IMRs of the serving cell.

The accuracy requirements are defined in Table 10.1.28.3.2-1 for CSI-RS
based CMR and NZP-IMR and in Table 10.1.28.3.2-2 for CSI-RS based CMR
and ZP-IMR.

The accuracy requirements in Tables 10.1.28.3.2-1 and 10.1.28.3.2-2 are
valid under the following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3 of TS 38.101-2 \[19\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for L1-SINR measurements are fulfilled according to Annex
B.2.8.3 for a corresponding Band for each relevant CSI-RS based CMR and
IMR.

\- The bandwidth of CSI-RS as CMR, NZP-IMR and ZP-IMR is 48 PRBs and the
density is 3.

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by the percentile
EIS spherical coverage of the UE, defined in clause 7.3.4 of TS 38.101-2
\[19\].

\- AWGN radio propagation conditions.

\- CSI-RS based CMR and IMR in the test come from the same direction.

The performance with larger bandwidth of CSI-RS as CMR, NZP-IMR and
ZP-IMR is equal to or better than the accuracy requirements in Tables
10.1.28.3.2-1 and 10.1.28.3.2-2.

Table 10.1.28.3.2-1: L1-SINR relative accuracy for CSI-RS based CMR and
NZP-IMR in FR2

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |   |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+===+
| N     | Ex    | C     | NZ    | Io    |       |       |   |
| ormal | treme | SI-RS | P-IMR | ^Not  |       |       |   |
| cond  | cond  | CMR   |       | e\ 1^ |       |       |   |
| ition | ition | Ê     | Ê     | range |       |       |   |
|       |       | s/Iot | s/Iot |       |       |       |   |
|       |       | ^Not  | ^Not  |       |       |       |   |
|       |       | e\ 2, | e\ 4^ |       |       |       |   |
|       |       | \ Not |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       | e\ 4^ |       |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       |       | Mi    | Ma    |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | nimum | ximum |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | Io    | Io    |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |   |
|       |       |       |       | S     | W~Cha | W~Cha |   |
|       |       |       |       | CS~CS | nnel~ | nnel~ |   |
|       |       |       |       | I-RS~ |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | e\ 3^ |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       |       | S     | S     |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | CS~CS | CS~CS |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | I-RS~ | I-RS~ |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | =     | =     |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 60kHz | 1     |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | 20kHz |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| ±3.0  | ±4.0  | ≥0    | ≥0    | Same  | N/A   | -50   |   |
|       |       |       |       | value |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | as    |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | CSI-R |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | S\_RP |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | in    |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | Table |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | in    |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | B.2   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | .8.3, |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | acco  |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | rding |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | to UE |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | Power |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | c     |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | lass, |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | oper  |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ating |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | band  |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | angle |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | of    |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ar    |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | rival |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| spec  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ified |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| at    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Refe  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| rence |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| p     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| oint, |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| para  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| meter |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| C     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| CMR   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| C     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| CMR   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| pair  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| C     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| reso  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| urces |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| which |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| app   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| lies. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| V     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| alues |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| based |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| on    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| fsens |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| EIS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| sphe  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| rical |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cov   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| erage |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cl    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| auses |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 7.3.2 |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 7.3.4 |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| of TS |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 38.   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 101-2 |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| \[    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 19\]. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Appli |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cable |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| side  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| cond  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ition |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| sel   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ected |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| depe  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| on    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| angle |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| arr   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ival. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| 4: In |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| ases, |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| C     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| CMR   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Ês    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| /Iot, |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| NZ    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| P-IMR |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| lated |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| param |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| eters |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| may   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| need  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| to be |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| adj   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| usted |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| e     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| nsure |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| at UE |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| bas   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| eband |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| above |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| value |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
| able. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+

Table 10.1.28.3.2-2: L1-SINR relative accuracy for CSI-RS based CMR and
ZP-IMR in FR2

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| Accuracy | Co       |          |          |          |          |   |
|          | nditions |          |          |          |          |   |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+===+
| Normal   | Extreme  | CSI-RS   | Io       |          |          |   |
| c        | c        | CMR      | ^        |          |          |   |
| ondition | ondition | Ês/Iot   | Note\ 1^ |          |          |   |
|          |          | ^No      | range    |          |          |   |
|          |          | te\ 2,\  |          |          |          |   |
|          |          | Note\ 4^ |          |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          |          | Minimum  | Maximum  |          |   |
|          |          |          | Io       | Io       |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| dB       | dB       | dB       | dBm /    | dBm/BW~  | dBm/BW~  |   |
|          |          |          | SCS      | Channel~ | Channel~ |   |
|          |          |          | ~CSI-RS~ |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | ^        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | Note\ 3^ |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          |          | SCS      | SCS      |          |   |
|          |          |          | ~CSI-RS~ | ~CSI-RS~ |          |   |
|          |          |          | = 60kHz  | = 120kHz |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| ±3.5     | ±4.5     | ≥-3      | Same     | N/A      | -50      |   |
|          |          |          | value as |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | CS       |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | I-RS\_RP |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | in Table |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | in       |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | B.2.8.3, |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | a        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | ccording |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | to UE    |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | Power    |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | class,   |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | o        |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | perating |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | band and |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | angle of |          |          |   |
|          |          |          | arrival  |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Io       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pecified |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| at the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| R        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| eference |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| point,   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| assumed  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to have  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| constant |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| EPRE     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| across   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ba       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ndwidth. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| The      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| p        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| arameter |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| CSI-RS   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| CMR      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| is the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| minimum  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| CSI-RS   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| CMR      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| of the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pair of  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| CSI-RS   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| r        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| esources |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to which |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| req      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| uirement |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| applies. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| NOTE 3:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Values   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| based on |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Refsens  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and EIS  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pherical |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| coverage |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| as       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| in       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| clauses  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 7.3.2    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 7.3.4 of |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| TS       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| 38.101-2 |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| \[19\].  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ap       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| side     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| c        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ondition |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| selected |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| d        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| epending |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| on angle |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| of       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| arrival. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| NOTE 4:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| In the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| test     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| cases,   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| CSI-RS   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| CMR      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| related  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| pa       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| rameters |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| may need |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to be    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| adjusted |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| to       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ensure   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| Ês/Iot   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| at UE    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| baseband |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| is above |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| value    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| in this  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| table.   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+

### 10.1.29 Intra-frequency RSRQ accuracy requirements under CCA

#### 10.1.29.1 Intra-frequency SS-RSRQ accuracy requirements in FR1

##### 10.1.29.1.1 Absolute SS-RSRQ Accuracy

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
SS-RSRQ in this clause apply to a cell on the same frequency as that of
the serving cell under CCA.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.29.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3F of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for intra-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.9 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

Table 10.1.29.1.1-1: SS-RSRQ intra-frequency absolute accuracy under CCA

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| N     | Ex    | SSB   | Io    |       |       |       |       |
| ormal | treme | Ê     | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
| cond  | cond  | s/Iot | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |       |
| ition | ition |       | range |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |       |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |       |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |       |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | e\ 3^ |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |       |
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±2.5  | ±4    | ≥-3   | NR\_C | -117  | -114  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | CA\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_I |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_C | -     | -     |       |       |
|       |       |       | CA\_F | 116.5 | 113.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_J |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±3.5  | ±4    | ≥-6   | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  |
|       |       |       | 2     | 2     | 2     | 2     | 2     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ghest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| acc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ment. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

### 10.1.30 Inter-frequency RSRQ accuracy requirements under CCA

#### 10.1.30.1 Inter-frequency SS-RSRQ accuracy requirements in FR1

##### 10.1.30.1.1 Aboslute Accuracy of SS-RSRQ

The requirements for absolute accuracy of SS-RSRQ in this clause apply
to a cell on a frequency under CCA that has different carrier frequency
from the serving cell.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.30.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3F of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.10 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

Table 10.1.30.1.1-1: SS-RSRQ inter-frequency absolute accuracy under CCA

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| N     | Ex    | SSB   | Io    |       |       |       |       |
| ormal | treme | Ê     | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
| cond  | cond  | s/Iot | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |       |
| ition | ition |       | range |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |       |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |       |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |       |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | e\ 3^ |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |       |
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±2.5  | ±4    | ≥-3   | NR\_C | -117  | -114  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | CA\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_I |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_C | -     | -     |       |       |
|       |       |       | CA\_F | 116.5 | 113.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_J |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±3.5  | ±4    | ≥-6   | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  |
|       |       |       | 2     | 2     | 2     | 2     | 2     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ghest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| acc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ment. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

##### 10.1.30.1.2 Relative Accuracy of SS-RSRQ

The relative accuracy of SS-RSRQ in inter-frequency case is defined as
the RSRQ measured from one cell on a frequency compared to the RSRP
measured from another cell on a different frequency, with at least one
of the two frequencies being under CCA.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.30.1.2-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

> \- Conditions defined in clause 7.3F of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for
> reference sensitivity are fulfilled.
>
> \- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
> to Annex B.2.10 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.
>
> \- \|SSB\_RP1~dBm~ - SSB\_RP2~dBm~\| ≤ 27 dB
>
> \- \|Channel 1\_Io ‑Channel 2\_Io \| ≤ 20 dB

Table 10.1.30.1.2-1: SS-RSRQ inter-frequency relative accuracy under CCA

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| N     | Ex    | SSB   | Io    |       |       |       |       |
| ormal | treme | Ê     | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
| cond  | cond  | s/Iot | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |       |
| ition | ition |       | range |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       | ^Not  | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |       |
|       |       | e\ 2^ | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |       |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |       |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | e\ 4^ |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| *     | *     | *     |       | **dBm | **dB  | **dB  |       |
| *dB** | *dB** | *dB** |       | /     | m/BW~ | m/BW~ |       |
|       |       |       |       | SCS~S | Chann | Chann |       |
|       |       |       |       | SB~** | el~** | el~** |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       | **SCS | **SCS |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | kHz** | kHz** |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±3    | ±4    | ≥-3   | NR\_C | -117  | -114  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | CA\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_I |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_C | -     | -     |       |       |
|       |       |       | CA\_F | 116.5 | 113.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_J |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±4    | ±4    | ≥-6   | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  |
|       |       |       | 3     | 3     | 3     | 3     | 3     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| para  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| meter |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| pair  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cells |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| which |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| app   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lies. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ghest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| acc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ment. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

### 10.1.31 Intra-frequency SINR accuracy requirements under CCA

10.1.31.1 Intra-frequency SS-SINR accuracy requirements in FR1

10.1.31.1.1 Absolute SS-SINR Accuracy

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
SS-SINR in this clause apply to a cell on the same frequency as that of
the serving cell under CCA.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.31.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3F of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for intra-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.9 for a corresponding Band.

Table 10.1.31.1.1-1: SS-SINR intra-frequency absolute accuracy under CCA

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| N     | Ex    | SSB   | Io    |       |       |       |       |
| ormal | treme | Ê     | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
| cond  | cond  | s/Iot | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |       |
| ition | ition |       | range |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       | ^Not  | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |       |
|       |       | e\ 3^ | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |       |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |       |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | e\ 4^ |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |       |
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±3.0  | ±4    | ≥-3   | NR\_C | -117  | -114  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | CA\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_I |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_C | -     | -     |       |       |
|       |       |       | CA\_F | 116.5 | 113.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_J |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±3.5  | ±4    | ≥-6   | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  |
|       |       |       | 2     | 2     | 2     | 2     | 2     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ghest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| acc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ment. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ments |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ≤ 25  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dB.   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

### 10.1.32 Inter-frequency SINR accuracy requirements under CCA

10.1.32.1 Inter-frequency SS-SINR accuracy requirements in FR1

10.1.32.1.1 Aboslute Accuracy of SS-SINR

The requirements for absolute accuracy of SS-SINR in this clause apply
to a cell on a frequency under CCA that has different carrier frequency
from the serving cell.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.32.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3F of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.10 for a corresponding Band.

Table 10.1.32.1.1-1: SS-SINR inter-frequency absolute accuracy under CCA

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| N     | Ex    | SSB   | Io    |       |       |       |       |
| ormal | treme | Ê     | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
| cond  | cond  | s/Iot | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |       |
| ition | ition | ^Not  | range |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | e\ 3^ |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |       |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |       |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |       |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | e\ 4^ |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |       |
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±3.0  | ±4    | ≥-3   | NR\_C | -117  | -114  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | CA\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_I |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_C | 116.5 | -     |       |       |
|       |       |       | CA\_F |       | 113.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_J |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±3.5  | ±4    | ≥-6   | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  |
|       |       |       | 2     | 2     | 2     | 2     | 2     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ghest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| acc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ment. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ments |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ≤ 25  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dB.   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

10.1.32.1.2 Relative Accuracy of SS-SINR

The relative accuracy of SS-SINR in inter frequency case is defined as
the SS-SINR measured from one cell on a frequency compared to the
SS-SINR measured from another cell on a different frequency, with at
least one of the two frequencies being under CCA.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.32.1.2-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3F of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.10 for a corresponding Band.

\- \|SSB\_RP1~dBm~ - SSB\_RP2~dBm~\| ≤ 27 dB

\- \| Channel 1\_Io ‑Channel 2\_Io \| ≤ 20 dB

Table 10.1.32.1.2-1: SS-SINR inter-frequency relative accuracy under CCA

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| N     | Ex    | SSB   | Io    |       |       |       |       |
| ormal | treme | Ê     | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
| cond  | cond  | s/Iot | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |       |
| ition | ition |       | range |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       | ^     | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |       |
|       |       | Note\ | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |       |
|       |       |  2,4^ | ating | Io    | Io    |       |       |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | e\ 5^ |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |       |
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | = 120 | = 240 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±3.5  | ±4    | ≥-3   | NR\_C | -117  | -114  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | CA\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_I |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_C | -     | -     |       |       |
|       |       |       | CA\_F | 116.5 | 113.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_J |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±4    | ±4    | ≥-6   | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  |
|       |       |       | 3     | 3     | 3     | 3     | 3     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| para  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| meter |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| pair  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cells |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| which |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| app   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lies. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ghest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| acc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ment. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ments |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ≤ 25  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dB.   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 5: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

### 10.1.33 L1-RSRP accuracy requirements under CCA

10.1.33.1 SSB based L1-RSRP accuracy requirements in FR1

10.1.33.1.1 Absolute Accuracy

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
SSB based L1-RSRP in this clause apply to all SSBs of the serving cell
configured for L1-RSRP measurement under CCA.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.33.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3F of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for L1-RSRP measurements are fulfilled according to Annex
B.2.10.1 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

Table 10.1.33.1.1-1: SSB based L1-RSRP absolute accuracy under CCA

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+
| N     | Ex    | SSB   | Io    |       |       |       |     |
| ormal | treme | Ê     | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |
| cond  | cond  | s/Iot | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |
| ition | ition |       | range |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |     |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |     |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |     |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |     |
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |     |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| ±5.0  | ±9.5  | ≥-3   | NR\_C | -117  | -114  | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | CA\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_I |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_C | -     | -     |       |     |
|       |       |       | CA\_F | 116.5 | 113.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_J |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| ±8.5  | ±11.5 | ≥-3   | NR\_C | N/A   | N/A   | -70   | -50 |
|       |       |       | CA\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_I |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_C |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | CA\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_J |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 2: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+

10.1.33.1.2 Relative Accuracy

The relative accuracy of SSB based L1-RSRP is defined as the L1-RSRP
measured from one SSB compared to the largest measured value of L1-RSRP
among all SSBs of the serving cell under CCA.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.33.1.2-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3F of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for L1-RSRP measurements are fulfilled according to Annex
B.2.10.1 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

Table 10.1.33.1.2-1: SSB based L1-RSRP relative accuracy under CCA

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+
| N     | Ex    | SSB   | Io    |       |       |       |     |
| ormal | treme | Ê     | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |
| cond  | cond  | s/Iot | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |
| ition | ition | ^Not  | range |       |       |       |     |
|       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |     |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |     |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |     |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | e\ 3^ |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |     |
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |     |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| ±3    | ±4    | ≥-3   | NR\_C | -117  | -114  | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | CA\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_I |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_C | -     | -     |       |     |
|       |       |       | CA\_F | 116.5 | 113.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_J |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| para  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| meter |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| pair  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| SSBs  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| which |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| app   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| lies. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 3: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+

### 10.1.34 RSSI measurements under CCA 

#### 10.1.34.1 Intra-frequency absolute RSSI measurement accuracy requirements in FR1

The accuracy requirements for intra-frequency RSSI measurements on a
carrier frequency under CCA are specified in Table 10.1.34.1-1. The
requirements apply for any configured RSSI *measDuration* \[2\],
provided that:

\- All symbols duing each RSSI measurement duration are available for
RSSI sampling within the same reporting interval.

The intra-frequency RSSI measurement bandwidth is the channel bandwidth
defined in Clause 4 of TS 37.213 \[33\], where the channel has the
center frequency configured by *ARFCN-valueNR*.

Table 10.1.34.1-1: Intra-frequency RSSI accuracy under CCA

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+
| A       | Con     |         |         |         |         |     |
| ccuracy | ditions |         |         |         |         |     |
+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=====+
| Normal  | Extreme | Io      |         |         |         |     |
| co      | co      | ^N      |         |         |         |     |
| ndition | ndition | ote\ 1^ |         |         |         |     |
|         |         | range   |         |         |         |     |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+
|         |         | NR      | Minimum | Maximum |         |     |
|         |         | op      | Io      | Io      |         |     |
|         |         | erating |         |         |         |     |
|         |         | band    |         |         |         |     |
|         |         | groups  |         |         |         |     |
|         |         | ^N      |         |         |         |     |
|         |         | ote\ 2^ |         |         |         |     |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+
| dB      | dB      |         | dBm /   | d       | d       |     |
|         |         |         | S       | Bm/BW~C | Bm/BW~C |     |
|         |         |         | CS~SSB~ | hannel~ | hannel~ |     |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+
|         |         |         | S       | S       |         |     |
|         |         |         | CS~SSB~ | CS~SSB~ |         |     |
|         |         |         | = 15    | = 30    |         |     |
|         |         |         | kHz     | kHz     |         |     |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+
| \       | \       | N       | -117    | -114    | N/A     | -70 |
| [±3.5\] | [±6.5\] | R\_CCA\ |         |         |         |     |
|         |         | _FR1\_I |         |         |         |     |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+
|         |         | N       | -116.5  | -113.5  |         |     |
|         |         | R\_CCA\ |         |         |         |     |
|         |         | _FR1\_J |         |         |         |     |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+
| \       | \       | N       | N/A     | N/A     | -70     | -50 |
| [±5.5\] | [±8.5\] | R\_CCA\ |         |         |         |     |
|         |         | _FR1\_I |         |         |         |     |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+
|         |         | N       |         |         |         |     |
|         |         | R\_CCA\ |         |         |         |     |
|         |         | _FR1\_J |         |         |         |     |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+
| NOTE 1: |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| Io is   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| assumed |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| to have |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| c       |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| onstant |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| EPRE    |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| across  |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| ban     |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| dwidth. |         |         |         |         |         |     |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| NOTE 2: |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| NR      |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| op      |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| erating |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| band    |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| groups  |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| are as  |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| defined |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| in      |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| clause  |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| 3.5.2.  |         |         |         |         |         |     |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+

#### 10.1.34.2 Inter-frequency absolute RSSI measurement accuracy requirements in FR1

The accuracy requirements for inter-frequency RSSI measurements on a
carrier frequency under CCA are the same as specified in clause
10.1.34.1.

The inter-frequency RSSI measurement bandwidth is the channel bandwidth
defined in Clause 4 of TS 37.213 \[33\], where the channel has the
center frequency configured by *ARFCN-valueNR*.

#### 10.1.34.3 RSSI measurement report mapping

The reporting range of RSSI measurement is defined from -100 dBm to -25
dBm with 1 dBm resolution.

The mapping of the measured quantity is defined in Table 10.1.34.3-1.
The range in the signalling may be larger than the guaranteed accuracy
range, provided that the following condition is met:

the RSSI measurement bandwidth is the channel bandwidth defined in
Clause 4 of TS 37.213 \[33\], where the channel has the center frequency
configured by *ARFCN-valueNR*.

Table 10.1.34.3-1: RSSI measurement report mapping

  ---------------- ------------------------- ------
  Reported value   Measured quantity value   Unit
  RSSI\_00         RSSI \< ‑100              dBm
  RSSI\_01         -100 ≤ RSSI \< ‑99        dBm
  RSSI\_02         -99 ≤ RSSI \< ‑98         dBm
  ...              ...                       ...
  RSSI\_74         -27 ≤ RSSI \< -26         dBm
  RSSI\_75         -26 ≤ RSSI \< -25         dBm
  RSSI\_76         -25 ≤ RSSI                dBm
  ---------------- ------------------------- ------

### 10.1.35 Channel occupancy measurements under CCA

#### 10.1.35.1 Intra-frequency channel occupancy measurement accuracy requirements in FR1

The UE shall be able to correctly evaluate the intra-frequency channel
occupancy configured according to TS 38.331 \[2\], provided that the
following conditions are met:

\- All symbols during each RSSI measurement duration are available for
RSSI sampling within the same reporting interval,

\- RSSI at the UE receiver meets the following condition with respect to
the configured *channelOccupancyThreshold* \[2\]:

RSSI at the UE receiver is below *channelOccupancyThreshold*-, or

RSSI at the UE receiver is above *channelOccupancyThreshold*+,

> where is the applicable RSSI measurement accuracy value from the RSSI
> measurement accuracy requirements specified in clause 10.1.34.1.

The channel occupancy measurement bandwidth is the same as the RSSI
measurement bandwidth in Clause 10.1.34.1.

#### 10.1.35.2 Inter-frequency channel occupancy measurement accuracy requirements in FR1

The UE shall be able to correctly evaluate the inter-frequency channel
occupancy configured according to TS 38.331 \[2\], provided that the
following conditions are met:

\- All symbols during each RSSI measurement duration are available for
RSSI sampling within the same reporting interval,

\- RSSI at the UE receiver meets the following condition with respect to
the configured *channelOccupancyThreshold* \[2\]:

RSSI at the UE receiver is below *channelOccupancyThreshold*-, or

RSSI at the UE receiver is above *channelOccupancyThreshold*+,

> where is the applicable RSSI measurement accuracy value from the RSSI
> measurement accuracy requirements specified in clause 10.1.34.2.

The channel occupancy measurement bandwidth is the same as the RSSI
measurement bandwidth in Clause 10.1.34.2.

### 10.1.36 Intra-frequency RSRP accuracy requirements under CCA

#### 10.1.36.1 Intra-frequency SS-RSRP accuracy requirements in FR1

##### 10.1.36.1.1 Absolute SS-RSRP Accuracy

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements for absolute accuracy of
SS-RSRP in this clause apply to a cell on the same frequency as that of
the serving cell under CCA.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.36.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3F of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for intra-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.8 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

Table 10.1.36.1.1-1: SS-RSRP intra-frequency absolute accuracy

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+
| N     | Ex    | SSB   | Io    |       |       |       |     |
| ormal | treme | Ê     | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |
| cond  | cond  | s/Iot | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |
| ition | ition |       | range |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |     |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |     |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |     |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |     |
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |     |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| ±4.5  | ±9    | ≥-6   | NR\_C | -117  | -114  | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | CA\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_I |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_C | -     | -     |       |     |
|       |       |       | CA\_F | 116.5 | 113.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_J |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| ±8    | ±11   | ≥-6   | NR\_C | N/A   | N/A   | -70   | -50 |
|       |       |       | CA\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_I |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_C |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | CA\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_J |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 2: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+

##### 10.1.36.1.2 Relative SS-RSRP Accuracy

The relative accuracy of SS-RSRP is defined as the SS-RSRP measured from
one cell compared to the SS-RSRP measured from another cell on the same
frequency, or between any two SS-RSRP levels measured on the same cell
under CCA.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.36.1.2-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

> \- Conditions defined in clause 7.3F of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for
> reference sensitivity are fulfilled.
>
> \- Conditions for intra-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
> to Annex B.2.8 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

Table 10.1.36.1.2-1: SS-RSRP intra-frequency relative accuracy under CCA

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| N     | Ex    | SSB   | Io    |       |       |       |       |
| ormal | treme | Ê     | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
| cond  | cond  | s/Iot | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |       |
| ition | ition | ^Not  | range |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |       |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |       |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |       |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | e\ 4^ |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |       |
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±2    | ±3    | ≥-3   | NR\_C | -117  | -114  | N/A   | -50   |
|       |       |       | CA\_F |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_I |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_C | -     | -     |       |       |
|       |       |       | CA\_F | 116.5 | 113.5 |       |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_J |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ±3    | ±3    | ≥-6   | Note  | Note  | Note  | N/A   | Note  |
|       |       |       | 3     | 3     | 3     |       | 3     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| para  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| meter |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| pair  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cells |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| which |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| app   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lies. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ghest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| acc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uracy |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ment. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

### 10.1.37 Inter-frequency RSRP accuracy requirements under CCA

#### 10.1.37.1 Inter-frequency SS-RSRP accuracy requirements in FR1

##### 10.1.37.1.1 Absolute Accuracy of SS-RSRP

The requirements for absolute accuracy of SS-RSRP in this clause apply
to a cell on a frequency under CCA that has different carrier frequency
from the serving cell.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.37.1.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3F of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.9 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

Table 10.1.37.1.1-1: SS-RSRP inter-frequency absolute accuracy under CCA

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+
| N     | Ex    | SSB   | Io    |       |       |       |     |
| ormal | treme | Ê     | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |
| cond  | cond  | s/Iot | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |
| ition | ition |       | range |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |     |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |     |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |     |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |     |
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |     |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| ±4.5  | ±9    | ≥-6   | NR\_C | -117  | -114  | N/A   | -70 |
|       |       |       | CA\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_I |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_C | -     | -     |       |     |
|       |       |       | CA\_F | 116.5 | 113.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_J |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| ±8    | ±11   | ≥-6   | NR\_C | N/A   | N/A   | -70   | -50 |
|       |       |       | CA\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_I |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_C |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | CA\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_J |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 2: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+

##### 10.1.37.1.2 Relative Accuracy of SS-RSRP

The relative accuracy of SS-RSRP in inter frequency case is defined as
the RSRP measured from one cell on a frequency compared to the RSRP
measured from another cell on a different frequency, with at least one
of the two frequencies being under CCA.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.1.37.1.2-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3F of TS 38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for inter-frequency measurements are fulfilled according
to Annex B.2.9 for a corresponding Band for each relevant SSB.

\- \|SSB\_RP1~dBm~ - SSB\_RP2~dBm~\| ≤ 27 dB

\- \| Channel 1\_Io ‑Channel 2\_Io \| ≤ 20 dB

Table 10.1.37.1.2-1: SS-RSRP inter-frequency relative accuracy under CCA

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+
| N     | Ex    | SSB   | Io    |       |       |       |     |
| ormal | treme | Ê     | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |
| cond  | cond  | s/Iot | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |
| ition | ition | ^Not  | range |       |       |       |     |
|       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |     |
|       |       |       | oper  | nimum | ximum |       |     |
|       |       |       | ating | Io    | Io    |       |     |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | e\ 3^ |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |     |
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | W~Cha | W~Cha |     |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       |       | SCS   | SCS   |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  |       |     |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| ±4.5  | ±6    | ≥-6   | NR\_C | -117  | -114  | N/A   | -50 |
|       |       |       | CA\_F |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_I |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_C | -     | -     |       |     |
|       |       |       | CA\_F | 116.5 | 113.5 |       |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_J |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| para  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| meter |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| mi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| nimum |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| SSB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| pair  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| cells |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| which |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| app   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| lies. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 3: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+

10.2 E-UTRAN measurements
-------------------------

### 10.2.1 Introduction

Accuracy requirements for measurements on E-UTRAN carrier frequencies
are specified in clause 10.2 and apply for UE in SA or NR-DC or NE-DC
operation mode, unless otherwise specified.

Unless otherwise specified, the requirements in clause 10.2 are
applicable for a UE:

\- in RRC\_CONNECTED state

\- performing measurements with appropriate measurement gaps according
to clause 9.1.2.

\- that is synchronised to the cell that is measured.

The reported measurement result after layer 1 filtering shall be an
estimate of the average value of the measured quantity over the
measurement period. The reference point for the measurement result after
layer 1 filtering is referred to as point B in the measurement model
described in TS 36.300 \[24\].

The accuracy requirements of E-UTRA measurements in this clause are
valid for the reported measurement result after layer 1 filtering. The
accuracy requirements are verified from the measurement report at point
D in the measurement model having the layer 3 filtering disabled.

If the UE needs measurement gaps to perform the inter-RAT NR ─ E-UTRAN
FDD and NR ─ E-UTRAN TDD measurements, the relevant measurement
procedure and measurement gap patterns stated in clause 9.1.2 shall
apply.

### 10.2.2 E-UTRAN RSRP measurements

NOTE: This measurement is for handover between NR and E-UTRAN.

The measurement period of E-UTRA RSRP in RRC\_CONNECTED state is
specified in clause 9.4.2 and 9.4.3.

The accuracy requirements of E-UTRA RSRP measurements in RRC\_CONNECTED
state and the corresponding side conditions shall be the same as the
inter-frequency RSRP Accuracy Requirements in clause 9.1.3 of TS
36.133 \[15\].

The reporting range and mapping specified for RSRP measurements in
clause 9.1.4 of TS 36.133 \[15\] shall apply.

### 10.2.3 E-UTRAN RSRQ measurements

NOTE: This measurement is for handover between NR and E-UTRAN.

The measurement period of E-UTRA RSRQ in RRC\_CONNECTED state is
specified in clause 9.4.2 and 9.4.3.

The accuracy requirements of E-UTRA RSRQ measurements in RRC\_CONNECTED
state and the corresponding side conditions shall be the same as the
inter-frequency RSRQ Accuracy Requirements in clause 9.1.6 of
TS 36.133 \[15\].

The requirements for accuracy of E-UTRA RSRQ measurements in
RRC\_CONNECTED state and the corresponding side conditions shall be the
same as the inter-frequency RSRQ Accuracy Requirements in clause 9.1.6
of TS 36.133 \[15\].

The reporting range and mapping specified for RSRQ measurements in
clause 9.1.7 of TS 36.133 \[15\] shall apply.

### 10.2.4 E-UTRAN RSTD measurements

The requirements in this clause are valid for UE supporting this
capability.

The measurement period is specified in clauses 9.4.4.1 and 9.4.4.2 for
inter-RAT NR ─ E-UTRAN FDD and inter-RAT NR ─ E-UTRAN TDD RSTD
measurements, respectively.

The accuracy requirements and the corresponding side conditions shall be
the same as the inter-frequency measurement accuracy requirements for
RSTD measurements in RRC\_CONNECTED in clause 9.1.10.2 of
TS 36.133 \[15\].

If the UE needs measurement gaps to perform the inter-RAT NR ─ E-UTRAN
FDD and NR ─ E-UTRAN TDD RSTD measurements, the relevant measurement
procedure and measurement gap patterns stated in clause 9.1.2 shall
apply.

The reporting range and mapping for the inter-RAT NR ─ E-UTRAN FDD and
NR ─ E-UTRAN TDD RSTD measurements is the same as specified for RSTD
measurements in TS 36.133 \[15, clauses 9.1.10.3 and 9.1.10.4\].

### 10.2.5 E-UTRAN RS-SINR measurements

NOTE: This measurement is for handover between NR and E-UTRAN.

The measurement period of E-UTRA RS-SINR in RRC\_CONNECTED state is
specified in clause 9.4.2 and 9.4.3.

The accuracy requirements of E-UTRA RS-SINR measurements in
RRC\_CONNECTED state and the corresponding side conditions shall be the
same as the inter-frequency RS-SINR Accuracy Requirements in
clause 9.1.17.3 of TS 36.133 \[15\].

The reporting range and mapping for E-UTRA RS-SINR measurements shall be
the same as specified for RS-SINR measurements in clause 9.1.17.1 of TS
36.133 \[15\].

### 10.2.6 E-UTRAN RSRP measurements for CA/DC Idle Mode Measurements

NOTE: This measurement is for CA/DC Idle Mode measurements between NR
and E-UTRAN.

The requirements in this clause are applicable for a UE:

\- in state RRC\_IDLE or RRC INACTIVE

\- that is synchronised to the cell that is measured.

The requirements are for absolute accuracy of E-UTRA RSRP.

The measurement period of E-UTRA RSRP in RRC\_IDLE and RRC INACTIVE
states are specified in clause 4.4.2.

The accuracy requirements of E-UTRA RSRP measurements in RRC\_IDLE and
RRC INACTIVE states and the corresponding side conditions shall be as
the inter-frequency RSRP Accuracy Requirements in clause 9.1.3B.2 of TS
36.133 \[15\].

The reporting range and mapping specified for RSRP measurements in
clause 9.1.4 of TS 36.133 \[15\] shall apply.

### 10.2.7 E-UTRAN RSRQ measurements for CA/DC Idle Mode Measurements

NOTE: This measurement is for CA/DC Idle Mode measurements between NR
and E-UTRAN.

The requirements in this clause are applicable for a UE:

\- in state RRC\_IDLE or RRC INACTIVE

\- that is synchronised to the cell that is measured.

The requirements are for absolute accuracy of E-UTRA RSRQ.

The measurement period of E-UTRA RSRQ in RRC\_IDLE and RRC INACTIVE
states are specified in clause 4.4.2.

The accuracy requirements of E-UTRA RSRQ measurements in RRC\_IDLE and
RRC INACTIVE states and the corresponding side conditions shall be as
the inter-frequency RSRQ Accuracy Requirements in clause 9.1.6B.2 of
TS 36.133 \[15\].

The reporting range and mapping specified for RSRQ measurements in
clause 9.1.7 of TS 36.133 \[15\] shall apply.

10.3 UTRAN FDD Measurements
---------------------------

The requirements in this clause are applicable for a UE:

\- in state RRC\_CONNECTED

\- performing measurements according to clause 9.4.6 with appropriate
measurement gaps

\- that is synchronised to the cell that is measured.

The reported measurement result after layer 1 filtering shall be an
estimate of the average value of the measured quantity over the
measurement period. The reference point for the measurement result after
layer 1 filtering is referred to as point B in the measurement model
described in TS 25.302 \[30\].

The accuracy requirements in this clause are valid for the reported
measurement result after layer 1 filtering. The accuracy requirements
are verified from the measurement report at point D in the measurement
model having the layer 3 filtering disabled.

### 10.3.1 UTRAN FDD CPICH RSCP

NOTE: This measurement is for handover between E-UTRAN and UTRAN FDD.

The requirements in this clause are valid for terminals supporting this
capability.

The measurement period for RRC\_CONNECTED state is specified in
clause 9.4.6.

In RRC\_CONNECTED state the accuracy requirements shall meet the
absolute accuracy requirements in table 10.3.1-1, under the following
conditions:

\- CPICH Ec/Io condition for a detectable cell is as specified in clause
9.4.6;

\- SCH\_Ec/Io condition for a detectable cell is as specified in clause
9.4.6.

Table 10.3.1-1: UTRAN FDD CPICH\_RSCP absolute accuracy

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Accuracy    | Conditions  |             |             |             |
+=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+
| Normal      | Extreme     | Io range    |             |             |
| condition   | condition   |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             |             | UTRA        | Minimum Io  | Maximum Io  |
|             |             | operating   |             |             |
|             |             | bands       |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| dB          | dB          |             | dBm/3.84    | dBm/3.84    |
|             |             |             | MHz         | MHz         |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             |             | Band I, IV, | -94         | -70         |
|             |             | VI, X XI,   |             |             |
|             |             | XIX and XXI |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             |             | Band IX     | -93         | -70         |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| ±6          | ±9          | Band II, V  | -92         | -70         |
|             |             | and VII     |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             |             | Band III,   | -91         | -70         |
|             |             | VIII, XII,  |             |             |
|             |             | XIII, XIV , |             |             |
|             |             | XX and XXII |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             |             | Band XXV,   | -90.5       | -70         |
|             |             | XXVI        |             |             |
|             |             | ^Note\ 1^   |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| ±8          | ±11         | Note 2      | -70         | -50         |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| NOTE 1: For |             |             |             |             |
| Band XXVI,  |             |             |             |             |
| the         |             |             |             |             |
| condition   |             |             |             |             |
| has the     |             |             |             |             |
| minimum Io  |             |             |             |             |
| of -92      |             |             |             |             |
| dBm/3.84    |             |             |             |             |
| MHz when    |             |             |             |             |
| the carrier |             |             |             |             |
| frequency   |             |             |             |             |
| of the      |             |             |             |             |
| assigned    |             |             |             |             |
| UTRA        |             |             |             |             |
| channel is  |             |             |             |             |
| within      |             |             |             |             |
| 869-894 MHz |             |             |             |             |
| for the UE  |             |             |             |             |
| which       |             |             |             |             |
| supports    |             |             |             |             |
| both Band V |             |             |             |             |
| and Band    |             |             |             |             |
| XXVI        |             |             |             |             |
| operating   |             |             |             |             |
| f           |             |             |             |             |
| requencies. |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| NOTE 2: The |             |             |             |             |
| same bands  |             |             |             |             |
| apply for   |             |             |             |             |
| this        |             |             |             |             |
| requirement |             |             |             |             |
| as for the  |             |             |             |             |
| co          |             |             |             |             |
| rresponding |             |             |             |             |
| highest     |             |             |             |             |
| accuracy    |             |             |             |             |
| r           |             |             |             |             |
| equirement. |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

If the UE, in RRC\_CONNECTED state, needs measurement gaps to perform
UTRAN FDD measurements, the relevant UTRAN FDD measurement procedure and
measurement gap pattern stated in clause 9.4.6 shall apply.

The reporting range and mapping specified for FDD CPICH RSCP in
TS 25.133 \[29\] shall apply.

### 10.3.2 UTRAN FDD CPICH Ec/No

NOTE: This measurement is for handover between E-UTRAN and UTRAN FDD.

The requirements in this clause are valid for terminals supporting this
capability.

The measurement period for RRC\_CONNECTED state is specified in
clause 9.4.6.

In RRC\_CONNECTED state the accuracy requirements shall be the same as
the inter-frequency measurement accuracy requirements for FDD CPICH
Ec/No in TS 25.133 \[29\].

If the UE, in RRC\_CONNECTED state, needs measurement gaps to perform
UTRAN FDD measurements, the UTRAN FDD measurement procedure and
measurement gap pattern stated in clause 9.4.6 shall apply.

The reporting range and mapping specified for FDD CPICH Ec/No in
TS 25.133 \[29\] shall apply.

10.4 V2X measurements
---------------------

### 10.4.1 Introduction

The requirements in this section are applicable for a UE capable of V2X
sidelink communication.

The accuracy requirements in this clause are:

\- applicable for AWGN radio propagation conditions,

\- assume independent interference (noise) at each receiver antenna
port.

### 10.4.2 Intra-frequency PSBCH-RSRP accuracy requirements for FR1

#### 10.4.2.1 PSBCH-RSRP Absolute Accuracy

The requirements for absolute accuracy of PSBCH-RSRP in this clause
apply to a V2X synchronization source on the same frequency as that of
the own V2X UE performing the measurement in FR1.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.4.2.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Demodulation reference signals are transmitted from one port.

\- Conditions defined in Clause 7.3E of TS38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for PSBCH-RSRP measurements are fulfilled according to
Annex B.4.2 for a corresponding Band for each relevant PSBCH-DMRS.

Table 10.4.2.1-1: Intra-frequency PSBCH-RSRP absolute accuracy in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+=====+
| N     | Ex    | Ê     | Io    |       |       |       |     |     |
| ormal | treme | s/Iot | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |     |
| cond  | cond  | ^Not  | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |     |
| ition | ition | e\ 3^ | range |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | V2X   | nimum | ximum |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | oper  | Io    | Io    |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | ating |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | SC    | W~Cha | W~Cha |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | S~SL~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       |       | SC    | SC    | SC    |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | S~SL~ | S~SL~ | S~SL~ |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  | = 60  |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   | kHz   |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| ±4.5  | ±9    | ≥-6   | NR\_T | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 | 114.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 116.5 | 113.5 | 110.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_J |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| ±8    | ±11   | ≥-6   | N     | N/A   | N/A   | N/A   | -70 | -50 |
|       |       |       | R\_TD |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | D\_FR |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | 1\_B, |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_J |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 2: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| V2X   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| for a |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| Sy    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| ncRef |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| UE is |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| P     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| SBCH- |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| DMRS. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+

#### 10.4.2.2 PSBCH-RSRP Relative Accuracy

The relative accuracy of PSBCH-RSRP is defined as the PSBCH-RSRP
measured from one V2X synchronization source compared to the PSBCH-RSRP
measured from another V2X synchronization source on the same frequency
in FR1.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.4.2.2-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Demodulation reference signals are transmitted from one port.

\- Conditions defined in Clause 7.3E of TS38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- Conditions for PSBCH-RSRP accuracy measurements are fulfilled
according to Annex B.4.2 for a corresponding Band for each relevant
PSBCH-DMRS.

Table 10.4.2.2-1: Intra-frequency PSBCH-RSRP relative accuracy in FR1

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+=======+
| N     | Ex    | Ê     | Io    |       |       |       |     |       |
| ormal | treme | s/Iot | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |       |
| cond  | cond  | ^Not  | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |       |
| ition | ition | e\ 3^ | range |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | V2X   | nimum | ximum |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | oper  | Io    | Io    |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | ating |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dBm / | dBm/B | dBm/B |     |       |
|       |       |       |       | SC    | W~Cha | W~Cha |     |       |
|       |       |       |       | S~SL~ | nnel~ | nnel~ |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       |       | SC    | SC    | SC    |     |       |
|       |       |       |       | S~SL~ | S~SL~ | S~SL~ |     |       |
|       |       |       |       | = 15  | = 30  | = 60  |     |       |
|       |       |       |       | kHz   | kHz   | kHz   |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
| ±2    | ±3    | ≥-3   | NR\_T | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 | 114.5 |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -50   |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 116.5 | 113.5 | 110.5 |     |       |
|       |       |       | R1\_J |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
| ±3    | ±3    | ≥-6   | Note  | Note  | Note  | Note  | N/A | Note  |
|       |       |       | 4     | 4     | 4     | 4     |     | 4     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 2: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| V2X   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| FR1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| .5.2. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| for a |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| Sy    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ncRef |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| UE is |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| P     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| SBCH- |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| DMRS. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| 4:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| bands |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| same  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| Io    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| each  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| this  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| hi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ghest |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| acc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| uracy |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
| ment. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+

### 10.4.3 Intra-Frequency SL-RSSI Measurement Accuracy Requirements for FR1

#### 10.4.3.1 Absolute SL-RSSI Accuracy

The intra-frequency SL-RSSI requirements are specified in Table
10.4.3.1-1. The requirements apply for measurement period of 1slot and
for any configured measurement bandwidth larger than 10 RBs, provided
that:

\- All symbols duing each RSSI measurement duration are available for
RSSI sampling within the same measurement interval.

Table 10.4.3.1-1: Intra-frequency SL-RSSI absolute accuracy

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+
| A       | Con     |         |         |         |         |        |
| ccuracy | ditions |         |         |         |         |        |
+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+========+
| Normal  | Extreme | Io      |         |         |         |        |
| co      | co      | ^N      |         |         |         |        |
| ndition | ndition | ote\ 1^ |         |         |         |        |
|         |         | range   |         |         |         |        |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+
|         |         | NR V2X  | Minimum | Maximum |         |        |
|         |         | op      | Io      | Io      |         |        |
|         |         | erating |         |         |         |        |
|         |         | band    |         |         |         |        |
|         |         | groups  |         |         |         |        |
|         |         | ^N      |         |         |         |        |
|         |         | ote\ 2^ |         |         |         |        |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+
| dB      | dB      |         | dBm/    | d       |         |        |
|         |         |         | SCS~SL~ | Bm/BW~C |         |        |
|         |         |         |         | hannel~ |         |        |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+
|         |         |         | SCS~SL~ | SCS~SL~ | SCS~SL~ |        |
|         |         |         | = 15kHz | = 30kHz | = 60kHz |        |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+
| ±2.5    | ±5.5    | N       | -120.5  | -117.5  | -114.5  | -50    |
|         |         | R\_TDD\ |         |         |         |        |
|         |         | _FR1\_B |         |         |         |        |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+
|         |         | N       | -116.5  | -113.5  | -110.5  | -50    |
|         |         | R\_TDD\ |         |         |         |        |
|         |         | _FR1\_J |         |         |         |        |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+
| ±4.5    | ±7.5    | Note 3  | Note 3  | Note 3  | Note 3  | Note 3 |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+
| NOTE 1: |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| Io is   |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| assumed |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| to have |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| c       |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| onstant |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| EPRE    |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| across  |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| ban     |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| dwidth. |         |         |         |         |         |        |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| NOTE 2: |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| NR V2X  |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| op      |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| erating |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| band    |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| groups  |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| are as  |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| defined |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| in      |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| Section |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| 3.5 for |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| corres  |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| ponding |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| NR      |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| op      |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| erating |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| bands.  |         |         |         |         |         |        |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| NOTE 3: |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| The     |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| same    |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| bands   |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| and the |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| same Io |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| ditions |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| for     |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| each    |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| band    |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| apply   |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| for     |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| this    |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| requ    |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| irement |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| as for  |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| corres  |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| ponding |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| highest |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| a       |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| ccuracy |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| requi   |         |         |         |         |         |        |
| rement. |         |         |         |         |         |        |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+

### 10.4.4 Intra-Frequency L1 SL-RSRP Measurement Accuracy Requirements for FR1

#### 10.4.4.1 Absolute L1 SL-RSRP Accuracy

The requirements for absolute accuracy of L1 SL-RSRP in this clause
apply to a UE performing PSCCH-RSRP and/or PSSCH-RSRP measurements on
the same frequency as used by operating V2X sidelink communication.

The accuracy requirements in Table 10.4.4.1-1 are valid under the
following conditions:

\- Demodulation reference signals for PSCCH and/or PSSCH are transmitted
from one port.

\- Conditions defined in clause 7.3E of TS38.101-1 \[18\] for reference
sensitivity are fulfilled.

\- PSCCH-RSRP\|dBm and/or PSSCH-RSRP\|dBm according to Annex B.4.4 for a
corresponding Band are fulfilled.

Table 10.4.4.1-1: Intra-frequency L1 SL-RSRP absolute accuracy for UE
capable of V2X sidelink communication

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| Acc   | Condi |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| uracy | tions |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+=====+
| N     | Ex    | Ê     | Io    |       |       |       |     |     |
| ormal | treme | s/Iot | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |     |
| cond  | cond  | ^Not  | e\ 1^ |       |       |       |     |     |
| ition | ition | e\ 3^ | range |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR    | Mi    | Ma    |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | V2X   | nimum | ximum |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | oper  | Io    | Io    |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | ating |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | band  |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | g     |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | roups |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | ^Not  |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | e\ 2^ |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| dB    | dB    | dB    |       | dB    | dBm/B | dBm/B |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | m/SCS | W~Cha | W~Cha |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       | nnel~ | nnel~ |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       |       | SCS = | SCS = | SCS = |     |     |
|       |       |       |       | 15kHz | 30kHz | 60kHz |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| ± 4.5 | ± 9   | ≥0 dB | NR\_T | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 120.5 | 117.5 | 114.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
|       |       |       | NR\_T | -     | -     | -     | N/A | -70 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F | 116.5 | 113.5 | 110.5 |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_J |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| ± 8   | ± 11  | ≥0 dB | NR\_T | N/A   | N/A   | N/A   | -70 | -50 |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_B |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | NR\_T |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | DD\_F |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       | R1\_J |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 1: Io |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| sumed |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| have  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| EPRE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| cross |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 2: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| V2X   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| roups |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| Se    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| ction |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 3.5   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| cor   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| respo |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| NR    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| b     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| ands. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| para  |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| meter |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| Ê     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| s/Iot |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| PSCCH |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| -DMRS |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| nd/or |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| P     |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| SSCH- |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
| DMRS. |       |       |       |       |       |       |     |     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+

11 Void
=======

12 V2X Requirements
===================

12.1 Introduction
-----------------

This clause contains the requirements for the UE capable of V2X sidelink
communication when the UE is out of coverage on the carrier used for V2X
sidelink operation, as defined in TS 38.304 \[1\]. The requirements
apply when the UE is:

\- in any cell selection state, or,

\- configured for V2X SL operation on a V2X carrier which is dedicated
to only V2X SL operation and configured with only a PCell on WAN
carrier.

Note: Any cell selection state refers to a UE that is out of network
coverage and is not associated with a serving cell on any carrier as
defined in TS 38.304 \[1\].

Note: When a UE in RRC\_CONNECTED state is performing transmissions
and/or reception for V2X sidelink communication, the UE shall meet all
the requirements specified in Clause 9 assuming that UE has a dedicated
RX/TX chain for V2X sidelink communication. Otherwise, the UE may
interrup the V2X sidelink communication in order to meet the measurement
requirements specified in Clause 9.

12.2 UE Transmit Timing
-----------------------

### 12.2.1 Introduction

This clause contains requirements of transmission timing for V2X
sidelink communication when:

\- GNSS is used as the synchronization reference source;

\- NR Cell is used as the synchronization reference source;

\- E-UTRAN Cell is used as the synchronization reference source;

\- SyncRef UE is used as the synchronization reference source.

### 12.2.2 GNSS as synchronization reference source

The requirements in this subclause are applicable when the reference
timing used by the UE for V2X sidelink communication is derived from
GNSS.

The sidelink transmissions takes place before the subframe starting
boundary as defined in TS 38.331 \[2\], where = 0 and=0.

The transmission timing error for sidelink transmissions shall be less
than or equal to ±T~e~ where the timing error limit value T~e~ is
defined in Table 12.2.2-1.

Table 12.2.2-1: T~e~ Timing Error Limit

  ------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------
  Frequency Range of sidelink                                         T~e\_~
  FR1                                                                 12\*64\*T~c~
  Note 1: T~c~ is the basic timing unit defined in TS 38.211 \[6\].   
  ------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------

### 12.2.3 NR Cell as synchronization reference source

The requirements in this subclause are applicable when the reference
timing used for sidelink transmissions is a NR serving cell on a non-V2X
sidelink carrier.

The sidelink transmissions takes place before the reception of the first
detected path (in time) of the corresponding downlink frame from the
reference cell, where = 0 and=0.

The transmission timing error for sidelink transmissions shall be less
than or equal to ±T~e~ where the timing error limit value T~e~ is
defined in Table 12.2.3-1.

Table 12.2.3-1: T~e~ Timing Error Limit

  ------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------- ------------------------------- --------------
  Frequency Range of sidelink                                         SCS of SSB signals ( kHz)   SCS of sidelink signals (kHz)   T~e~
  FR1                                                                 15                          15                              14\*64\*T~c~
                                                                                                  30                              12\*64\*T~c~
                                                                                                  60                              12\*64\*T~c~
                                                                      30                          15                              10\*64\*T~c~
                                                                                                  30                              10\*64\*T~c~
                                                                                                  60                              9\*64\*T~c~
  Note 1: T~c~ is the basic timing unit defined in TS 38.211 \[6\].                                                               
  ------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------- ------------------------------- --------------

### 12.2.4 E-URTAN Cell as synchronization reference source

The requirements in this subclause are applicable when the reference
timing used for sidelink transmissions is an E-UTRAN serving cell on a
non-V2X sidelink carrier.

The sidelink transmissions takes place before the reception of the first
detected path (in time) of the corresponding E-UTRAN downlink frame from
the reference cell, where = 0 and=0.

The transmission timing error for sidelink transmissions shall be less
than or equal to ±T~e~ where the timing error limit value T~e~ is
defined in Table 12.2.4-1.

Table 12.2.4-1: T~e~ Timing Error Limit

  ------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------- --------------
  Frequency Range of sidelink                                         E-UTRAN downlink bandwidth (MHz)   T~e\_~
  FR1                                                                 ≥3                                 14\*64\*T~c~
  Note 1: T~c~ is the basic timing unit defined in TS 38.211 \[6\].                                      
  ------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------- --------------

### 12.2.5 SyncRef UE as synchronization reference source

The requirements in this subclause are applicable when the reference
timing used for deriving sidelink transmission is from SyncRef UE
transmitting sidelink synchronization signals.

The sidelink transmissions takes place before the reception of the first
detected path (in time) of the corresponding timing reference frame from
the SyncRef UE, where = 0 and=0.

The transmission timing error for sidelink transmissions shall be less
than or equal to ±T~e~ where the timing error limit value T~e~ is
defined in Table 12.2.5-1.

Table 12.2.5-1: T~e~ Timing Error Limit

  ------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------- --------------
  Frequency Range of sidelink                                         SCS of sidelink signals (kHz)   T~e~
  FR1                                                                 15                              12\*64\*T~c~
                                                                      30                              8\*64\*T~c~
                                                                      60                              5\*64\*T~c~
  Note 1: T~c~ is the basic timing unit defined in TS 38.211 \[6\].                                   
  ------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------- --------------

12.3 Initiation/Cease of SLSS Transmissions
-------------------------------------------

### 12.3.1 Introduction

The requirements in this subclause are applicable to the UE capable of
V2X sidelink communication when:

\- GNSS is used as the synchronization reference source;

\- NR Cell is used as the synchronization reference source;

\- EUTRAN Cell is used as the synchronization reference source;

\- SyncRef UE is used as the synchronization reference source.

#### 12.3.1.1 Initiation/Cease of SLSS transmissions with NR cell as synchronization reference source

The requirements apply when the NR Cell is used as synchronization
reference source and when the UE is

\- out of coverage on the V2X NR sidelink carrier and in-coverage with a
serving cell on a NR non-V2X sidelink carrier,

and when the conditions for SLSS transmissions specified in TS
38.331\[2\] are met; *networkControlledSyncTx* is not configured; and
*syncTxThreshIC* is included in *SystemInformationBlockType12*. The UE
shall be capable of measuring the RSRP of the cell used as
synchronization reference source to evaluate to initiate/cease SLSS
transmissions within T~evaluate,SLSS~

where,

\- T~evaluate,SLSS~ is as specified in Table 12.3.1.1-1 when UE performs
SSB based measurements without measurement gaps.

\- T~evaluate,SLSS~ is as specified in Table 12.3.1.1-2 when UE performs
SSB based measurements with measurement gaps.

Table 12.3.1.1-1: T~evaluate,SLSS~ for measurements without measurement
gaps when NR cell is used as synchronization reference source (FR1)

  DRX cycle in NR cell                                                                                                                                          T~evaluate,SLSS~
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------
  No DRX                                                                                                                                                        max(400ms, ceil( 2 x 5 x K~p~) x SMTC period)^Note\ 1^
  DRX cycle≤ 320ms                                                                                                                                              max(400ms, ceil(1.5 x 2 x 5 x K~p~) x max(SMTC period, DRX cycle))
  DRX cycle\>320ms                                                                                                                                              ceil( 7 x K~p~ ) x DRX cycle
  NOTE 1: If different SMTC periodicities are configured for different cells, the SMTC period in the requirement is the one used by the cell being identified   

Table 12.3.1.1-2: T~evaluate,SLSS~ for measurements with measurement
gaps when NR cell is used as synchronization reference source (FR1)

  DRX cycle in NR cell   T~evaluate,SLSS~
  ---------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  No DRX                 max(400ms, 2 x 5 x max(MGRP, SMTC period)) x CSSF~intra~
  DRX cycle≤ 320ms       max(400ms, ceil(2 x 1.5x 5) x max(MGRP, SMTC period,DRX cycle)) x CSSF~intra~
  DRX cycle\>320ms       7 x max(MGRP, DRX cycle) x CSSF~intra~

If higher layer filtering is configured, an additional delay in
evaluation to initiate/cease SLSS transmissions can be expected.

For the NR cell as synchronization reference source:

\- SS-RSRP related side conditions given in clauses 10.1.2 for FR1,
respectively, for a corresponding Band,

\- SS-RSRQ related side conditions given in clauses 10.1.7 for FR1,
respectively, for a corresponding Band,

\- SS-SINR related side conditions given in clauses 10.1.12 for FR1,
respectively, for a corresponding Band,

\- SSB\_RP and SSB Ês/Iot according to Annex B.2.2 for a corresponding
Band.

#### 12.3.1.2 Initiation/Cease of SLSS transmissions with EUTRAN cell as synchronization reference source

The requirements apply when the EUTRAN Cell is used as synchronization
reference source and when the UE is

\- out of coverage on the V2X NR sidelink carrier and in-coverage with a
serving cell on a LTE non-V2X sidelink carrier,

and when the conditions for SLSS transmissions specified in TS
36.331\[16\] are met; *networkControlledSyncTx* is not configured; and
*syncTxThreshIC* is included in *SystemInformationBlockType28*. The UE
shall be capable of measuring the RSRP of the cell used as
synchronization reference source to evaluate to initiate/cease SLSS
transmissions within T~evaluate,SLSS~

where,

\- T~evaluate,SLSS~ = 0.4 seconds when UE is not configured with DRX.

\- T~evaluate,SLSS~ = as specified in Table 12.3.1.2-1 when UE is
configured with DRX.

Table 12.3.1.2-1: T~evaluate,SLSS~ when EUTRAN cell is used as
synchronization reference source

+--------------------------------------+------------------------------+
| DRX cycle length in EUTRAN cell\[s\] | T~evaluate,SLSS~             |
|                                      |                              |
|                                      | \[s\] (number of DRX cycles) |
+--------------------------------------+------------------------------+
| ≤0.04                                | 0.4 (Note 1)                 |
+--------------------------------------+------------------------------+
| 0.04\<DRX-cycle≤2.56                 | Note 2 (6)                   |
+--------------------------------------+------------------------------+
| Note1: Number of DRX cycles depends  |                              |
| upon the DRX cycle in use            |                              |
|                                      |                              |
| Note2: Time depends upon the DRX     |                              |
| cycles in use                        |                              |
+--------------------------------------+------------------------------+

If higher layer filtering is configured, an additional delay in
evaluation to initiate/cease SLSS transmissions can be expected.

For the cell as synchronization reference source:

\- RSRP related side conditions given in TS 36.133\[15\] Clauses 9.1.2.1
and 9.1.2.2 and RSRQ related side conditions given in TS 36.133\[15\]
Clause 9.1.5.1 for a corresponding Band are fulfilled,

\- SCH\_RP and SCH Ês/Iot according to TS 36.133\[15\] Annex B.2.1 for a
corresponding Band are fulfilled.

#### 12.3.1.3 Initiation/Cease of SLSS transmissions with GNSS as synchronization reference source

The requirements apply when GNSS is used as synchronization reference
source and when the UE is

-   out of coverage on the V2X sidelink carrier and in-coverage with a
    serving cell on a non-V2X sidelink carrier,

and when the conditions for SLSS transmissions specified in TS
38.331\[2\] are met; *networkControlledSyncTx* is not configured; and
*syncTxThreshIC* is included in *SystemInformationBlockType12* in a NR
cell.

When the conditions for SLSS transmissions specified in TS 36.331\[16\]
are met; *networkControlledSyncTx* is not configured; and
*syncTxThreshIC* is included in *SystemInformationBlockType28* in a
EUTRAN cell.

The requirements in Clause 12.3.1.1 shall apply if the serving cell is a
NR cell.

The requirements in Clause 12.3.1.2 shall apply if the serving cell is a
EUTRAN cell.

#### 12.3.1.4 Initiation/Cease of SLSS transmissions with SyncRef UE as synchronization reference source

The requirements apply when SyncRef UE is used as synchronization
reference source and when the UE is

-   in any cell selection state, or

-   out of coverage on the V2X sidelink carrier and is associated with a
    serving cell on a non-V2X sidelink carrier,

and when the conditions for SLSS transmissions specified in TS
38.331\[2\] are met and when SyncRef UE is used as synchronization
reference source and if *syncTxThreshOoC* is included in the
preconfigured V2X parameters.

The UE shall be capable of measuring the PSBCH-RSRP of the selected
SyncRef UE used as synchronization reference source and evaluate it to
initiate/cease SLSS transmissions within T~evaluate,SLSS~ = 4 S-SSB
periods.

If higher layer filtering for PSBCH-RSRP measurements is pre-configured,
an additional delay in evaluation to initiate/cease SLSS transmissions
can be expected.

For the selected SyncRef UE as defined in TS 38.331 \[2\] used to derive
transmission timing for V2X sidelink communication:

\- PSBCH-RSRP related side conditions given in Clause 12.4 for a
corresponding Band are fulfilled,

\- S-SSB\_RP and S-SSB Ês/Iot according to Annex B.4.3 for a
corresponding Band are fulfilled.

12.4 Selection / Reselection of V2X Synchronization Reference Source
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The requirements defined in this clause do not apply to the UEs that do
not support transmission and reception of SLSS.

A SyncRef UE is considered to be detectable when

\- PSBCH-RSRP related side conditions given in Clause 10 are fulfilled
for a corresponding Band,

\- S-SSB\_RP and S-SSB Ês/Iot according to Annex B.4.3 for a
corresponding Band are fulfilled.

When GNSS synchronization reference source is configured as the highest
priority and

\- UE is synchronized to GNSS directly,

\- UE shall not drop any V2X SLSS and data transmission for the purpose
of selection/reselection to the SyncRef UE.

\- UE is synchronized to a SyncRef UE that is synchronized to GNSS
directly or in-directly,

\- UE shall not drop any V2X data transmission for the purpose of
selection/reselection to the SyncRef UE. The UE shall be able to
identify newly detectable intra-frequency SyncRef UE within
T~detect,SyncRef\ UE\_V2X~ seconds if the SyncRef UE meets the selection
/ reselection criterion defined in TS 38.331\[2\].
T~detect,SyncRef\ UE\_V2X~ is defined as 1.6 seconds at S-SSB Ês/Iot ≥ 0
dB, provided that the UE is allowed to drop a maximum of 30% of its SLSS
transmissions during T~detect,SyncRef\ UE\_V2X~ for the purpose of
selection / reselection to the SyncRef UE.

\- in other case

\- The UE shall be able to identify newly detectable intra-frequency
SyncRef UE within T~detect,SyncRef\ UE\_V2X~ seconds if the SyncRef UE
meets the selection / reselection criterion defined in TS 38.331\[2\].
T~detect,SyncRef\ UE\_V2X~ is defined as 8 seconds at S-SSB Ês/Iot ≥ 0
dB, provided that the UE is allowed to drop a maximum of 6 % of its V2X
data and SLSS transmissions during T~detect,SyncRef\ UE\_V2X~ for the
purpose of selection / reselection to the SyncRef UE.

\- UE is allowed to drop up to 2 slots of its V2X data reception per
PSBCH monitoring occasion and overall drop rate shall not exceed 0.3% of
its V2X data reception during T~detect,SyncRef\ UE\_V2X~ for the purpose
of selection / reselection to the SyncRef UE.

When serving cell/PCell synchronization reference source is configured
as the highest priority,

\- UE shall be able to identify newly detectable intra-frequency SyncRef
UE within T~detect,SyncRef\ UE\_V2X~ seconds if the SyncRef UE meets the
selection / reselection criterion defined in TS 38.331\[2\].
T~detect,SyncRef\ UE\_V2X~ is defined as 8 seconds at S-SSB Ês/Iot ≥ 0
dB, provided that the V2X UE is allowed to drop a maximum of 6 % of its
V2X data and SLSS transmissions for the purpose of selection /
reselection to the SyncRef UE.

\- UE is allowed to drop up to 2 slots of its V2X data reception per
PSBCH monitoring occasion and overall drop rate shall not exceed 0.3% of
its V2X data reception during T~detect,SyncRef\ UE\_V2X~ for the purpose
of selection / reselection to the SyncRef UE.

UE shall be capable of performing PSBCH-RSRP measurements for 3
identified intra-frequency SyncRef UEs with the measurement period of
320 ms. It is assumed that the SyncRef UE do not drop or delay any SLSS
transmission within the measurement period. Otherwise, the measurement
period may be extended.

When UE is synchronized to GNSS directly, before selection / reselection
of the new synchronization reference source UE shall evaluate the GNSS
synchronization source reliability for at least 20 seconds before
changing the synchronization reference from GNSS to another
synchronization reference source. UE shall be always synchronized to
GNSS directly during the evaluation of GNSS synchronization source
reliability.

12.5 L1 SL-RSRP measurements
----------------------------

### 12.5.1 Introduction 

This clause contains the measurement requirements related to resource
reselection and resource pre-emption of the UE capable of V2X sidelink
communication.

### 12.5.2 SL-RSRP measurements

The UE physical layer shall be capable of performing the L1 SL-RSRP
measurements on the carrier operating V2X sidelink communication for
determining the subset of resources to be excluded in PSSCH resource
selection in sidelink transmission mode 2. The L1 SL-RSRP measurement
period corresponds to one slot and the measurement shall meet the L1
SL-RSRP measurement accuracy requirement in Clause 10. After resource
(re-)selection procedure, re-evaluation is performed on the reserved
resources by L1 SL-RSRP measurements before transmission of SCI with
reservation when the conditions specified in TS 38.214\[26\] are
satisfied.

When the pre-emption mechanism is enabled for the resource pool that UE
is monitoring and selecting resource from, after UE selects from the
resource not excluded based on L1 SL-RSRP measurement procedure, the UE
shall be capable of triggering reselection of already signalled
resource(s) as a resource reservation when the conditions specified in
TS38.214\[26\] are satisfied.

12.6 Congestion Control measurements
------------------------------------

The UE shall be capable of estimating the channel busy ratio for one or
more transmission pools indicated by higher layers in TS 38.331\[2\],
based on SL-RSSI measurements provided by the physical layer.

When no sidelink transmissions occur, the UE physical layer shall
perform a single-shot SL-RSSI measurement for each sub-channel included
in all the slots configured as transmission pools.

The SL-RSSI measurement performed according to this clause shall meet
the SL-RSSI measurement accuracy requirements defined in Clause 10.

The UE shall perform channel busy ratio (CBR) measurement based on
SL-RSSI measurements as described in TS 38.215 \[4\].

12.7 Interruption
-----------------

### 12.7.1 Interruptions to WAN due to V2X Sidelink Communication 

This clause contains the requirements related to the interruptions on
the PCell/serving cell due to V2X sidelink communication.

A UE capable of V2X sidelink communication may indicate its interest
(initiation or termination) in V2X sidelink communication to the
connected gNodeB using IE *SidelinkUEInformationNR* in TS38.331\[2\].

The UE is allowed an interruption of up to the duration shown in table
12.7.1-1 on the PCell/serving cell during the RRC reconfiguration
procedure that includes the V2X sidelink communication configuration
message *SL-ConfigDedicatedNR* in TS 38.331\[2\] (setup and release).
This interruption is for both uplink and downlink of the PCell/serving
cell.

Table 12.7.1-1: Interruption length at V2X RRC reconfiguration

+------------------------+---------------------+---------------------+
| ![](med                | NR Slot length (ms) | Interruption length |
| ia/image6.wmf){width=" |                     |                     |
| 0.16666666666666666in" |                     | (number of slots)   |
| height="0              |                     |                     |
| .16666666666666666in"} |                     |                     |
+========================+=====================+=====================+
| 0                      | 1                   | 2                   |
+------------------------+---------------------+---------------------+
| 1                      | 0.5                 | 3                   |
+------------------------+---------------------+---------------------+
| 2                      | 0.25                | 5                   |
+------------------------+---------------------+---------------------+
| 3                      | 0.125               | 9                   |
+------------------------+---------------------+---------------------+

### 12.7.2 V2X Sidelink Communication Dropping due to synchronization source change

This clause contains the requirements related to the interruptions on
the V2X sidelink communication due to synchronization source change.

For NR V2X UE not supporting gNB/eNB as synchronization reference
source, UE is allowed to drop LTE and NR V2X SL transmission or
reception for up to 1ms when synchronization source is changed, where
the drop of  LTE V2X SL transmission or reception applies only to
in-device coexistence scenario in TS38.213 \[3\]:

\- From GNSS

\- to syncRef UE that is synchronized to GNSS directly/in-directly

\- to syncRef UE that has the lowest priority

\- From syncRef UE that is synchronized to GNSS directly/in-directly

\- to GNSS

\- to syncRef UE that has the lowest priority

\- From syncRef UE that has the lowest priority

\- to GNSS

\- to syncRef UE that is synchronized to GNSS directly/in-directly

\- to syncRef UE that has the lowest priority

For NR V2X UE supporting gNB/eNB as synchronization reference source, UE
is allowed to drop LTE and NR V2X SL transmission or reception for up to
1ms when synchronization source is changed, where the drop of  LTE V2X
SL transmission or reception applies only to in-device coexistence
scenario in TS38.213 \[3\]:

\- From GNSS

\- to syncRef UE that is synchronized to GNSS directly/in-directly

\- to gNB/eNB

\- to syncRef UE that is synchronized to gNB/eNB directly

\- to syncRef UE that is synchronized to gNB/eNB in-directly

\- to syncRef UE that has the lowest priority

\- From syncRef UE that is synchronized to GNSS directly/in-directly

\- to GNSS

\- to gNB/eNB

\- to syncRef UE that is synchronized to gNB/eNB directly

\- to syncRef UE that is synchronized to gNB/eNB in-directly

\- to syncRef UE that has the lowest priority

\- From gNB or eNB

\- to GNSS

\- to syncRef UE that is synchronized to GNSS directly/in-directly

\- to eNB or gNB

\- to syncRef UE that is synchronized to gNB or eNB directly

\- to syncRef UE that is synchronized to gNB or eNB in-directly

\- to syncRef UE that has the lowest priority

\- From syncRef UE that is synchronized to gNB/eNB directly

\- to GNSS

\- to syncRef UE that is synchronized to GNSS directly/in-directly

\- to gNB/eNB

\- to syncRef UE that is synchronized to gNB/eNB directly

\- to syncRef UE that is synchronized to gNB/eNB in-directly

\- to syncRef UE that has the lowest priority

\- From syncRef UE that is synchronized to gNB/eNB in-directly

\- to GNSS

\- to syncRef UE that is synchronized to GNSS directly/in-directly

\- to gNB/eNB

\- to syncRef UE that is synchronized to gNB/eNB directly

\- to syncRef UE that is synchronized to gNB/eNB in-directly

\- to syncRef UE that has the lowest priority

\- From syncRef UE that has the lowest priority

\- to GNSS

\- to syncRef UE that is synchronized to GNSS directly

\- to syncRef UE that is synchronized to GNSS in-directly

\- to gNB/eNB

\- to syncRef UE that is synchronized to gNB/eNB directly

\- to syncRef UE that is synchronized to gNB/eNB in-directly

\- to syncRef UE that has the lowest priority

UE is allowed to interruption any V2X sidelink signals including PSSCH,
PSCCH, PSBCH, PSFCH and SLSS signals.

### 12.7.3 Interruptions to WAN due to switching between E-UTRA V2X Sidelink and NR V2X Sidelink 

This sub-clause contains the requirements related to the interruptions
on the PCell/serving cell due to switching between E-UTRA V2X sidelink
and NR V2X sidelink transmissions on a dedicated carrier. It is
applicable for UE capable of both NR V2X sidelink and E-UTRA V2X
sidelink transmissions in TDM-ed manner.

When a UE capable of switching between E-UTRA V2X sidelink and NR V2X
sidelink, the UE is allowed an interruption of up to the duration shown
in table 12.7.3-1 on the PCell/serving cell during the E-UTRA V2X
sidelink and NR V2X sidelink switch.

This interruption is for both uplink and downlink of the PCell/serving
cell.

Table 12.7.3-1: Interruption length due to switching between E-UTRA V2X
and NR V2X

  ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}   Slot length (ms)   Interruption length (number of slots)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ---------------------------------------
  0                                                                                     1                  2
  1                                                                                     0.5                2
  2                                                                                     0.25               2
  3                                                                                     0.125              3

12.8 Reliability of GNSS signal
-------------------------------

This clause contains requirements regarding reliability of GNSS signal
for the UE capable of V2X sidelink communication under the following
additional condition:

\- The UE is configured or pre-configured with parameters for enabling
the UE to acquire the GNSS synchronization.

If UE considers GNSS is a reliable synchronization reference, the UE
shall meet timing accuracy requirement as specified in 12.2 and
frequency accuracy requirement as specified in 6.4E of TS38.101-1\[18\].
Otherwise, the UE shall be capable to select another synchronization
reference source.

12.9 Scheduling availability
----------------------------

### 12.9.1 Scheduling availability of UE switching between E-UTRA sidelink and NR sidelink 

This clause contains the restrictions on the scheduling availability for
V2X sidelink due to switching between E-UTRA V2X sidelink and NR V2X
sidelink transmission on a dedicated carrier. For the NR V2X sidelink,
the assumed number of configured symbols in a slot is 14.

When switch from E-UTRA V2X sidelink to NR V2X sidelink occurs in NR
slot 'n',

-   UE is not expected to transmit or receive on NR V2X sidelink on the
    > slot 'n'.

When switch from NR V2X sidelink to E-UTRA V2X sidelink occurs in NR
slot 'n-1',

-   UE is not expected to transmit or receive on NR V2X sidelink on the
    > slot 'n-1'.

When switch from NR V2X sidelink to E-UTRA V2X sidelink occurs in E-UTRA
subframe 'n',

-   UE is not expected to transmit or receive on E-UTRA V2X sidelink on
    > the subframe 'n'.

When switch from E-UTRA V2X sidelink to NR V2X sidelink occurs in E-UTRA
subframe 'n-1',

-   UE is not expected to transmit or receive E-UTRA on V2X sidelink on
    > the subframe 'n-1'.

13 Measurement Performance Requirements for NR gNB
==================================================

13.1 UL-RTOA
------------

### 13.1.1 Report mapping

The reporting range of UL Relative Time of Arrival (UL-RTOA), as defined
in Clause 5.2.2 of TS 38.215 \[4\], is defined from **-985024T~c~ to
+985024×T~c~**. The reporting resolution is **uniform across the
reporting range and is defined as T = T~c~\*2^k^** where **k is selected
by gNB from the set {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5}.**

> T~c~ is defined in TS 38.211 \[6\].

LMF provides a recommended resolution parameter,
*timingReportingGranularityFactor* \[35\]. gNB selects parameter k based
on *timingReportingGranularityFactor* \[35\] and informs the LMF.

The mapping of measured quantity for each reporting resolution (k) is
defined in Table 13.1.1-1 to Table 13.1.1-6.

Table 13.1.1-1: UL-RTOA measurement report mapping for reporting
resolution of **T~c~** (k=0)

  ------------------- ------------------------------- ------
  Reported Value      Measured Quantity Value         Unit
  UL\_RTOA\_0000      -985024 \> UL\_RTOA             T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_0001      -985024 ≤ UL\_RTOA \< -985023   T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_0002      -985023 ≤ UL\_RTOA \< -985022   T~c~
  ...                 ...                             ...
  UL\_RTOA\_985023    -2 ≤ UL\_RTOA \< -1             T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_985024    -1 ≤ UL\_RTOA ≤ 0               T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_985025    0 \< UL\_RTOA ≤ 1               T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_985026    1 \< UL\_RTOA ≤ 2               T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_985027    2 \< UL\_RTOA ≤ 3               T~c~
  ...                 ...                             ...
  UL\_RTOA\_1970048   985023 \< UL\_RTOA ≤ 985024     T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_1970049   985024 \< UL\_RTOA              T~c~
  ------------------- ------------------------------- ------

Table 13.1.1-2: UL-RTOA measurement report mapping for reporting
resolution of 2**T~c~** (k=1)

  ------------------ ------------------------------- ------
  Reported Value     Measured Quantity Value         Unit
  UL\_RTOA\_0000     -985024 \> UL\_RTOA             T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_0001     -985024 ≤ UL\_RTOA \< -985022   T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_0002     -985022 ≤ UL\_RTOA \< -985020   T~c~
  ...                ...                             ...
  UL\_RTOA\_492511   -4 ≤ UL\_RTOA \< -2             T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_492512   -2 ≤ UL\_RTOA ≤ 0               T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_492513   0 \< UL\_RTOA ≤ 2               T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_492514   2 \< UL\_RTOA ≤ 4               T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_492515   4 \< UL\_RTOA ≤ 6               T~c~
  ...                ...                             ...
  UL\_RTOA\_985024   985022 \< UL\_RTOA ≤ 985024     T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_985025   985024 \< UL\_RTOA              T~c~
  ------------------ ------------------------------- ------

Table 13.1.1-3: UL-RTOA measurement report mapping for reporting
resolution of 4**T~c~** (k=2)

  ------------------ ------------------------------- ------
  Reported Value     Measured Quantity Value         Unit
  UL\_RTOA\_0000     -985024 \> UL\_RTOA             T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_0001     -985024 ≤ UL\_RTOA \< -985020   T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_0002     -985020 ≤ UL\_RTOA \< -985018   T~c~
  ...                ...                             ...
  UL\_RTOA\_246255   -8 ≤ UL\_RTOA \< -4             T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_246256   -4 ≤ UL\_RTOA ≤ 0               T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_246257   0 \< UL\_RTOA ≤ 4               T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_246258   4 \< UL\_RTOA ≤ 8               T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_246259   8 \< UL\_RTOA ≤ 12              T~c~
  ...                ...                             ...
  UL\_RTOA\_492512   985020 \< UL\_RTOA ≤ 985024     T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_492513   985024 \< UL\_RTOA              T~c~
  ------------------ ------------------------------- ------

Table 13.1.1-4: UL-RTOA measurement report mapping for reporting
resolution of 8**T~c~** (k=3)

  ------------------ ------------------------------- ------
  Reported Value     Measured Quantity Value         Unit
  UL\_RTOA\_0000     -985024 \> UL\_RTOA             T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_0001     -985024 ≤ UL\_RTOA \< -985016   T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_0002     -985016 ≤ UL\_RTOA \< -985008   T~c~
  ...                ...                             ...
  UL\_RTOA\_123127   -16 ≤ UL\_RTOA \< -8            T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_123128   -8 ≤ UL\_RTOA ≤ 0               T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_123129   0 \< UL\_RTOA ≤ 8               T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_123130   8 \< UL\_RTOA ≤ 16              T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_123131   16 \< UL\_RTOA ≤ 24             T~c~
  ...                ...                             ...
  UL\_RTOA\_246256   985016 \< UL\_RTOA ≤ 985024     T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_246257   985024 \< UL\_RTOA              T~c~
  ------------------ ------------------------------- ------

Table 13.1.1-5: UL-RTOA measurement report mapping for reporting
resolution of 16**T~c~** (k=4)

  ------------------ ------------------------------- ------
  Reported Value     Measured Quantity Value         Unit
  UL\_RTOA\_0000     -985024 \> UL\_RTOA             T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_0001     -985024 ≤ UL\_RTOA \< -985008   T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_0002     -985008 ≤ UL\_RTOA \< -984992   T~c~
  ...                ...                             ...
  UL\_RTOA\_61563    -32 ≤ UL\_RTOA \< -16           T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_61564    -16 ≤ UL\_RTOA ≤ 0              T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_61565    0 \< UL\_RTOA ≤ 16              T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_61566    16 \< UL\_RTOA ≤ 32             T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_61567    32 \< UL\_RTOA ≤ 48             T~c~
  ...                ...                             ...
  UL\_RTOA\_123128   985008 \< UL\_RTOA ≤ 985024     T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_123129   985024 \< UL\_RTOA              T~c~
  ------------------ ------------------------------- ------

Table 13.1.1-5: UL-RTOA measurement report mapping for reporting
resolution of 32**T~c~** (k=5)

  ----------------- ------------------------------- ------
  Reported Value    Measured Quantity Value         Unit
  UL\_RTOA\_0000    -985024 \> UL\_RTOA             T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_0001    -985024 ≤ UL\_RTOA \< -984992   T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_0002    -984992 ≤ UL\_RTOA \< -984960   T~c~
  ...               ...                             ...
  UL\_RTOA\_30781   -64 ≤ UL\_RTOA \< -32           T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_30782   -32 ≤ UL\_RTOA ≤ 0              T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_30783   0 \< UL\_RTOA ≤ 32              T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_30784   32 \< UL\_RTOA ≤ 64             T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_30785   64 \< UL\_RTOA ≤ 96             T~c~
  ...               ...                             ...
  UL\_RTOA\_61564   984992 \< UL\_RTOA ≤ 985024     T~c~
  UL\_RTOA\_61565   985024 \< UL\_RTOA              T~c~
  ----------------- ------------------------------- ------

13.2 gNB Rx-Tx time difference
------------------------------

### 13.2.1 Report mapping

The reporting range of gNB Rx-Tx time difference, as defined in Clause
5.2.3 of TS 38.215 \[4\], is defined from **-985024T~c~ to
+985024×T~c~**. The reporting resolution is **uniform across the
reporting range and is defined as T = T~c~\*2^k^** where **k is selected
by gNB from the set {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5}.**

T~c~ is defined in TS 38.211 \[6\].

LMF provides a recommended resolution parameter,
*timingReportingGranularityFactor* \[35\]. gNB selects parameter k based
on *timingReportingGranularityFactor* \[35\] and informs the LMF.

The mapping of measured quantity for each reporting resolution (k) is
defined in Table 13.2.1-1 to Table 13.2.1-6.

Table 13.2.1-1: gNB Rx-Tx time difference measurement report mapping for
reporting resolution of **T~c~** (k=0)

  ---------------- ---------------------------- ------
  Reported Value   Measured Quantity Value      Unit
  RX-TX\_0000      -985024 \> RX-TX             T~c~
  RX-TX\_0001      -985024 ≤ RX-TX \< -985023   T~c~
  RX-TX\_0002      -985023 ≤ RX-TX \< -985022   T~c~
  ...              ...                          ...
  RX-TX\_985023    -2 ≤ RX-TX \< -1             T~c~
  RX-TX\_985024    -1 ≤ RX-TX ≤ 0               T~c~
  RX-TX\_985025    0 \< RX-TX ≤ 1               T~c~
  RX-TX\_985026    1 \< RX-TX ≤ 2               T~c~
  RX-TX\_985027    2 \< RX-TX ≤ 3               T~c~
  ...              ...                          ...
  RX-TX\_1970048   985023 \< RX-TX ≤ 985024     T~c~
  RX-TX\_1970049   985024 \< RX-TX              T~c~
  ---------------- ---------------------------- ------

Table 13.2.1-2: gNB Rx-Tx time difference measurement report mapping for
reporting resolution of 2**T~c~** (k=1)

  ---------------- ---------------------------- ------
  Reported Value   Measured Quantity Value      Unit
  RX-TX\_0000      -985024 \> RX-TX             T~c~
  RX-TX\_0001      -985024 ≤ RX-TX \< -985022   T~c~
  RX-TX\_0002      -985022 ≤ RX-TX \< -985020   T~c~
  ...              ...                          ...
  RX-TX\_492511    -4 ≤ RX-TX \< -2             T~c~
  RX-TX\_492512    -2 ≤ RX-TX ≤ 0               T~c~
  RX-TX\_492513    0 \< RX-TX ≤ 2               T~c~
  RX-TX\_492514    2 \< RX-TX ≤ 4               T~c~
  RX-TX\_492515    4 \< RX-TX ≤ 6               T~c~
  ...              ...                          ...
  RX-TX\_985024    985022 \< RX-TX ≤ 985024     T~c~
  RX-TX\_985025    985024 \< RX-TX              T~c~
  ---------------- ---------------------------- ------

Table 13.2.1-3: gNB Rx-Tx time difference measurement report mapping for
reporting resolution of 4**T~c~** (k=2)

  ---------------- ---------------------------- ------
  Reported Value   Measured Quantity Value      Unit
  RX-TX\_0000      -985024 \> RX-TX             T~c~
  RX-TX\_0001      -985024 ≤ RX-TX \< -985020   T~c~
  RX-TX\_0002      -985020 ≤ RX-TX \< -985018   T~c~
  ...              ...                          ...
  RX-TX\_246255    -8 ≤ RX-TX \< -4             T~c~
  RX-TX\_246256    -4 ≤ RX-TX ≤ 0               T~c~
  RX-TX\_246257    0 \< RX-TX ≤ 4               T~c~
  RX-TX\_246258    4 \< RX-TX ≤ 8               T~c~
  RX-TX\_246259    8 \< RX-TX ≤ 12              T~c~
  ...              ...                          ...
  RX-TX\_492512    985020 \< RX-TX ≤ 985024     T~c~
  RX-TX\_492513    985024 \< RX-TX              T~c~
  ---------------- ---------------------------- ------

Table 13.2.1-4: gNB Rx-Tx time difference measurement report mapping for
reporting resolution of 8**T~c~** (k=3)

  ---------------- ---------------------------- ------
  Reported Value   Measured Quantity Value      Unit
  RX-TX\_0000      -985024 \> RX-TX             T~c~
  RX-TX\_0001      -985024 ≤ RX-TX \< -985016   T~c~
  RX-TX\_0002      -985016 ≤ RX-TX \< -985008   T~c~
  ...              ...                          ...
  RX-TX\_123127    -16 ≤ RX-TX \< -8            T~c~
  RX-TX\_123128    -8 ≤ RX-TX ≤ 0               T~c~
  RX-TX\_123129    0 \< RX-TX ≤ 8               T~c~
  RX-TX\_123130    8 \< RX-TX ≤ 16              T~c~
  RX-TX\_123131    16 \< RX-TX ≤ 24             T~c~
  ...              ...                          ...
  RX-TX\_246256    985016 \< RX-TX ≤ 985024     T~c~
  RX-TX\_246257    985024 \< RX-TX              T~c~
  ---------------- ---------------------------- ------

Table 13.2.1-5: gNB Rx-Tx time difference measurement report mapping for
reporting resolution of 16**T~c~** (k=4)

  ---------------- ---------------------------- ------
  Reported Value   Measured Quantity Value      Unit
  RX-TX\_0000      -985024 \> RX-TX             T~c~
  RX-TX\_0001      -985024 ≤ RX-TX \< -985008   T~c~
  RX-TX\_0002      -985008 ≤ RX-TX \< -984992   T~c~
  ...              ...                          ...
  RX-TX\_61563     -32 ≤ RX-TX \< -16           T~c~
  RX-TX\_61564     -16 ≤ RX-TX ≤ 0              T~c~
  RX-TX\_61565     0 \< RX-TX ≤ 16              T~c~
  RX-TX\_61566     16 \< RX-TX ≤ 32             T~c~
  RX-TX\_61567     32 \< RX-TX ≤ 48             T~c~
  ...              ...                          ...
  RX-TX\_123128    985008 \< RX-TX ≤ 985024     T~c~
  RX-TX\_123129    985024 \< RX-TX              T~c~
  ---------------- ---------------------------- ------

Table 13.2.1-5: gNB Rx-Tx time difference measurement report mapping for
reporting resolution of 32**T~c~** (k=5)

  ---------------- ---------------------------- ------
  Reported Value   Measured Quantity Value      Unit
  RX-TX\_0000      -985024 \> RX-TX             T~c~
  RX-TX\_0001      -985024 ≤ RX-TX \< -984992   T~c~
  RX-TX\_0002      -984992 ≤ RX-TX \< -984960   T~c~
  ...              ...                          ...
  RX-TX\_30781     -64 ≤ RX-TX \< -32           T~c~
  RX-TX\_30782     -32 ≤ RX-TX ≤ 0              T~c~
  RX-TX\_30783     0 \< RX-TX ≤ 32              T~c~
  RX-TX\_30784     32 \< RX-TX ≤ 64             T~c~
  RX-TX\_30785     64 \< RX-TX ≤ 96             T~c~
  ...              ...                          ...
  RX-TX\_61564     984992 \< RX-TX ≤ 985024     T~c~
  RX-TX\_61565     985024 \< RX-TX              T~c~
  ---------------- ---------------------------- ------

### 13.2.2 Measurement Accuracy Requirements

#### 13.2.2.1 Introduction

This clause defines accuracy requirements for gNB Rx-Tx time difference
measurement in FR1 and FR2. The requirements are applicable for gNB
supporting gNB Rx-Tx time difference measurement. The gNB, which
declares the support for gNB Rx-Tx time difference measurement also
declares that it meets gNB Rx-Tx time difference accuracy requirements
at least for one side condition Ês/Iot ≥ +3 dB or Ês/Iot ≥ -13 dB.

#### 13.2.2.2 Requirements

The accuracy requirements for gNB Rx-Tx time difference measurement
shall be within ±(X+Y) T~c~ under the following conditions:

\- AWGN propagation conditions.

\- The measured signals are in the directions covered by RoAoA of OTA
reference sensitivity requirements for gNB type 1-O and 2-O BS

where

\- X is defined in Table 13.2.2.2-1 for gNB types 1-C, 1-H and 1-O and
in Table 13.2.2.2-2 for gNB type 2-O.

\- Y is declared by manufacturer and can be different for different gNB
types 1-C, 1-H, 1-O and 2-O.

Note: The measurement accuracy requirements in Table 13.2.2.2-1 and
Table 13.2.2.2-2 are defined under an assumption that gNB is not
mandated to perform receive beam sweeping.

Table 13.2.2.2-1: gNB Rx-Tx time difference absolute accuracy in FR1 for
gNB type 1-C, 1-H and 1-O

  **Accuracy**   **SRS Ês/Iot**   **SCS**         **SRS bandwidth range**
  -------------- ---------------- --------------- -------------------------
  **Unit: Tc**   **Unit: dB**     **Unit: kHz**   **Unit: RB**
  123            ≥ -13            15              44 ≤ BW ≤ 84
  48                                              88 ≤ BW ≤ 168
  17                                              176 ≤ BW
  122            ≥ +3                             24 ≤ BW ≤ 40
  62                                              44 ≤ BW ≤ 84
  32                                              88 ≤ BW ≤ 168
  16                                              176 ≤ BW
  42             ≥ -13            30              48 ≤ BW ≤ 84
  24                                              88 ≤ BW ≤ 168
  8                                               176 ≤ BW
  32             ≥ +3                             48 ≤ BW ≤ 84
  17                                              88 ≤ BW ≤ 168
  9                                               176 ≤ BW
  21             ≥ -13            60              48 ≤ BW ≤ 84
  12                                              88 ≤ BW
  16             ≥ +3                             48 ≤ BW ≤ 84
  9                                               88 ≤ BW

Table 13.2.2.2-2: gNB Rx-Tx time difference absolute accuracy in FR2 for
gNB type 2-O

  **Accuracy**   **SRS Ês/Iot**   **SCS**         **SRS bandwidth range**
  -------------- ---------------- --------------- -------------------------
  **Unit: Tc**   **Unit: dB**     **Unit: kHz**   **Unit: RB**
  9              ≥ -13            60              132 ≤ BW ≤ 168
  8                                               176 ≤ BW
  9              ≥ +3                             132 ≤ BW ≤ 168
  8                                               176 ≤ BW
  22             ≥ -13            120             32 ≤ BW ≤ 40
  15                                              44 ≤ BW ≤ 84
  8                                               88 ≤ BW
  16             ≥ +3                             32 ≤ BW ≤ 40
  9                                               44 ≤ BW ≤ 84
  8                                               88 ≤ BW

13.3 UL SRS RSRP measurement
----------------------------

### 13.3.1 Report mapping

The reporting range of UL SRS RSRP, as defined in clause 5.2.5 of 38.215
\[4\], is defined from -156dBm to -31dBm with resolution 1dB.

The mapping of measured quantity is defined in Table 13.3.1-1. The range
in the signalling may be larger than the guaranteed accuracy range.

Table 13.3.1-1: UL SRS RSRP report mapping

  Reported value   Measured quantity value   Unit
  ---------------- ------------------------- ------
  SRS\_RSRP\_0     SRS-RSRP\<-156            dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_1     -156≤SRS-RSRP\<-155       dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_2     -155≤SRS-RSRP\<-154       dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_3     -154≤SRS-RSRP\<-153       dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_4     -153≤SRS-RSRP\<-152       dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_5     -152≤SRS-RSRP\<-151       dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_6     -151≤SRS-RSRP\<-150       dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_7     -150≤SRS-RSRP\<-149       dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_8     -149≤SRS-RSRP\<-148       dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_9     -148≤SRS-RSRP\<-147       dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_10    -147≤SRS-RSRP\<-146       dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_11    -146≤SRS-RSRP\<-145       dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_12    -145≤SRS-RSRP\<-144       dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_13    -144≤SRS-RSRP\<-143       dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_14    -143≤SRS-RSRP\<-142       dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_15    -142≤SRS-RSRP\<-141       dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_16    -141≤SRS-RSRP\<-140       dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_17    -140≤SRS-RSRP\<-139       dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_18    -139≤SRS-RSRP\<-138       dBm
  ...              ...                       ...
  SRS\_RSRP\_111   -46≤SRS-RSRP\<-45         dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_112   -45≤SRS-RSRP\<-44         dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_113   -44≤SRS-RSRP\<-43         dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_114   -43≤SRS-RSRP\<-42         dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_115   -42≤SRS-RSRP\<-41         dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_116   -41≤SRS-RSRP\<-40         dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_117   -40≤SRS-RSRP\<-39         dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_118   -39≤SRS-RSRP\<-38         dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_119   -38≤SRS-RSRP\<-37         dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_120   -37≤SRS-RSRP\<-36         dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_121   -36≤SRS-RSRP\<-35         dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_122   -35≤SRS-RSRP\<-34         dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_123   -34≤SRS-RSRP\<-33         dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_124   -33≤SRS-RSRP\<-32         dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_125   -32≤SRS-RSRP\<-31         dBm
  SRS\_RSRP\_126   -31≤SRS-RSRP              dBm

### 13.3.2 Measurement accuracy requirements

#### 13.3.2.1 Introduction

This clause defines accuracy requirements for SRS-RSRP measurement in
FR1 and FR2. The requirements are applicable for gNB supporting SRS-RSRP
measurement. The gNB, which declares the support for SRS-RSRP
measurement also declares that it meets SRS-RSRP accuracy requirements
at least for one side condition Ês/Iot ≥ +3 dB or Ês/Iot ≥ -13 dB.

#### 13.3.2.2 Requirements

The accuracy requirements in Table 13.3.2.2-1, Table 13.3.2.2-2 and
Table 13.3.2.2-3 are valid under the following conditions:

AWGN propagation conditions.

The measured signals are in the directions covered by RoAoA of OTA
reference sensitivity requirements for gNB type 1-O and 2-O BS

Note: The measurement accuracy requirements in Table 13.3.2.2-1, Table
13.3.2.2-2 and Table 13.3.2.2-3 are defined under an assumption that gNB
is not mandated to perform receive beam sweeping.

Table 13.3.2.2-1 gNB SRS-RSRP absolute accuracy requirements in FR1 for
gNB type 1-C

  **Accuracy**   **Conditions**   
  -------------- ---------------- -------------------------
                 **SRS Ês/Iot**   **SRS bandwidth range**
                                  
  **dB**         **dB**           **RB**
  ±4             Ês/Iot ≥ +3      24 ≤ BW \< 48
  ±4                              48 ≤ BW \< 132
  ±4                              132 ≤ BW
  ±6.5           Ês/Iot ≥ -13     48 ≤ BW \< 132
  ±5.5                            132 ≤ BW

Table 13.3.2.2-2 gNB SRS-RSRP absolute accuracy requirements in FR1 for
gNB type 1-H and 1-O

  **Accuracy**   **Conditions**   
  -------------- ---------------- -------------------------
                 **SRS Ês/Iot**   **SRS bandwidth range**
                                  
  **dB**         **dB**           **RB**
  ±5.5           Ês/Iot ≥ +3      24 ≤ BW \< 48
  ±5.5                            48 ≤ BW \< 132
  ±5.5                            132 ≤ BW
  ±8             Ês/Iot ≥ -13     48 ≤ BW \< 132
  ±7                              132 ≤ BW

Table 13.3.2.2-3 gNB SRS-RSRP absolute accuracy requirements in FR2 for
gNB type 2-O

  **Accuracy**   **Conditions**   
  -------------- ---------------- -------------------------
                 **SRS Ês/Iot**   **SRS bandwidth range**
                                  
  **dB**         **dB**           **RB**
  ±5.5           Ês/Iot ≥ +3      32 ≤ BW \< 64
  ±5.5                            64 ≤ BW \< 132
  ±5.5                            132 ≤ BW
  ±8             Ês/Iot ≥ -13     64 ≤ BW \< 132
  ±7                              132 ≤ BW

### 13.4 AoA/ZoA

### 13.4.1 Report mapping

The reporting range of UL Angle of Arrival (UL-AoA), as defined in
Clause 5.2.4 of TS 38.215 \[4\], is defined from **-180 degree to +180
degree for** azimuth angle of arrival (A-AoA ). The reporting resolution
is **0.1 degree.**

The reporting range of UL Angle of Arrival, as defined in Clause 5.2.4
of TS 38.215 \[4\], is defined from **0 degree to +180 degree for
zenith** angle of arrival (Z-AoA). The reporting resolution is **0.1
degree.**

The mapping of A-AoA measured quantity is defined in Table 13.4.1-1. The
mapping of Z-AoA measured quantity is defined in Table 13.4.1-2.

Table 13.4.1-1: Azimuth Angle of Arrival (A-AoA) measurement report
mapping

  Reported value   Measured quantity value (A-AoA)   Unit
  ---------------- --------------------------------- --------
  A-AoA\_0         -180 ≤ A-AoA \< -179.9            degree
  A-AoA\_1         -179.9 ≤ A-AoA \< -179.8          degree
  A-AoA\_2         -179.8 ≤ A-AoA \< -179.7          degree
  ...              ...                               ...
  A-AoA\_1798      -0.2 ≤ A-AoA\< -0.1               degree
  A-AoA\_1799      -0.1 ≤ A-AoA \< 0                 degree
  A-AoA\_1800      0 ≤ A-AoA \< 0.1                  degree
  A-AoA\_1801      0.1 ≤ A-AoA \< 0.2                degree
  A-AoA\_1802      0.2 ≤ A-AoA \< 0.3                degree
  ...              ...                               ...
  A-AoA\_3598      179.8 ≤ A-AoA \< 179.9            degree
  A-AoA\_3599      179.9 ≤ A-AoA \< 180              degree

Table 13.4.1-2: Zenith Angle of Arrival (Z-AoA) measurement report
mapping

  Reported value   Measured quantity value (Z-AoA)   Unit
  ---------------- --------------------------------- --------
  Z-AoA\_0         0 ≤ Z-AoA \< 0.1                  degree
  Z-AoA \_1        0.1 ≤ Z-AoA \< 0.2                degree
  Z-AoA \_2        0.2 ≤ Z-AoA \< 0.3                degree
  ...              ...                               ...
  Z-AoA \_1798     179.8 ≤ Z-AoA \< 179.9            degree
  Z-AoA \_1799     179.9 ≤ Z-AoA ≤180                degree
