+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 3GPP TS 38.175 V16.6.0 (2023-09) |                                  |
+==================================+==================================+
| Technical Specification          |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 3rd Generation Partnership       |                                  |
| Project;                         |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Technical Specification Group    |                                  |
| Radio Access Network;            |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| NR;                              |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Integrated access and backhaul   |                                  |
| ElectroMagnetic Compatibility    |                                  |
| (EMC)                            |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| (Release 16)                     |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
|                                  |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| ![](media/image1.jp              | ![](media/image2.p               |
| eg){width="1.3229166666666667in" | ng){width="1.7708333333333333in" |
| height="0.9166666666666666in"}   | height="1.0416666666666667in"}   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
|                                  |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| The present document has been    |                                  |
| developed within the 3rd         |                                  |
| Generation Partnership Project   |                                  |
| (3GPP ^TM^) and may be further   |                                  |
| elaborated for the purposes of   |                                  |
| 3GPP.\                           |                                  |
| The present document has not     |                                  |
| been subject to any approval     |                                  |
| process by the 3GPP              |                                  |
| Organizational Partners and      |                                  |
| shall not be implemented.\       |                                  |
| This Specification is provided   |                                  |
| for future development work      |                                  |
| within 3GPP only. The            |                                  |
| Organizational Partners accept   |                                  |
| no liability for any use of this |                                  |
| Specification.\                  |                                  |
| Specifications and Reports for   |                                  |
| implementation of the 3GPP ^TM^  |                                  |
| system should be obtained via    |                                  |
| the 3GPP Organizational          |                                  |
| Partners\' Publications Offices. |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                                      |
+======================================================================+
| > ***3GPP***                                                         |
| >                                                                    |
| > Postal address                                                     |
| >                                                                    |
| > 3GPP support office address                                        |
| >                                                                    |
| > 650 Route des Lucioles - Sophia Antipolis                          |
| >                                                                    |
| > Valbonne - FRANCE                                                  |
| >                                                                    |
| > Tel.: +33 4 92 94 42 00 Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16                     |
| >                                                                    |
| > Internet                                                           |
| >                                                                    |
| > http://www.3gpp.org                                                |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ***Copyright Notification***                                         |
|                                                                      |
| No part may be reproduced except as authorized by written            |
| permission.\                                                         |
| The copyright and the foregoing restriction extend to reproduction   |
| in all media.                                                        |
|                                                                      |
| © 2023, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, |
| TTA, TTC).                                                           |
|                                                                      |
| All rights reserved.                                                 |
|                                                                      |
| UMTS™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its      |
| members                                                              |
|                                                                      |
| 3GPP™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its      |
| Members and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners\                     |
| LTE™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its       |
| Members and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners                      |
|                                                                      |
| GSM® and the GSM logo are registered and owned by the GSM            |
| Association                                                          |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+

 Contents {#contents .TT}
========

Foreword 7

1 Scope 8

2 References 8

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 10

3.1 Definitions 10

3.2 Symbols 11

3.3 Abbreviations 11

4 Test conditions 12

4.1 General 12

4.2 Arrangements for establishing a communication link 12

4.3 Narrow band responses on receivers 13

4.4 Exclusion bands 13

4.4.1 Transmitter exclusion band 13

4.4.2 Receiver exclusion band 14

4.5 IAB test configurations 14

5 Performance assessment 15

5.1 General 15

5.2 Assessment of throughput of IAB-DU 16

5.3 Assessment of throughput of IAB-MT 16

5.4 Ancillary equipment 16

6 Performance criteria 16

6.1 Performance criteria for continuous phenomena for IAB 16

6.2 Performance criteria for transient phenomena for IAB 17

6.3 Performance criteria for continuous phenomena for Ancillary
equipment 17

6.4 Performance criteria for transient phenomena for Ancillary equipment
17

7 Applicability overview 18

7.1 Emission 18

7.2 Immunity 18

8 Emission 19

8.1 Test configurations 19

8.2 Radiated emission 20

8.2.1 Radiated emission, IAB 20

8.2.1.1 Definition 20

8.2.1.2 Test method 20

8.2.1.3 Limits 21

8.2.1.4 Interpretation of the measurement results 21

8.2.2 Radiated emission, ancillary equipment 22

8.2.2.1 Definition 22

8.2.2.2 Test method 22

8.2.2.3 Limits 22

8.3 Conducted emission DC power input/output port 22

8.3.1 Definition 23

8.3.2 Test method 23

8.3.3 Limits 23

8.4 Conducted emissions, AC mains power input/output port 23

8.4.1 Definition 23

8.4.2 Test method 23

8.4.3 Limits 23

8.5 Conducted emissions, telecommunication port 24

8.5.1 Definition 24

8.5.2 Test method 24

8.5.3 Limits 24

8.6 Harmonic Current emissions (AC mains input port) 24

8.7 Voltage fluctuations and flicker (AC mains input port) 24

9 Immunity 24

9.1 Test configurations 24

9.2 RF electromagnetic field (80 MHz - 6000 MHz) 25

9.2.1 Definition 25

9.2.2 Test method and level 25

9.2.3 Performance criteria 27

9.3 Electrostatic discharge 27

9.3.1 Definition 27

9.3.2 Test method and level 28

9.3.3 Performance criteria 28

9.4 Fast transients common mode 28

9.4.1 Definition 28

9.4.2 Test method and level 28

9.4.3 Performance criteria 28

9.5 RF common mode (0.15 MHz - 80 MHz) 29

9.5.1 Definition 29

9.5.2 Test method and level 29

9.5.3 Performance criteria 29

9.6 Voltage dips and interruptions 29

9.6.1 Definition 30

9.6.2 Test method and level 30

9.6.3 Performance criteria 30

9.7 Surges, common and differential mode 30

9.7.1 Definition 30

9.7.2 Test method and level 30

9.7.2.1 Test method for telecommunication ports directly connected to
outdoor cables 31

9.7.2.2 Test method for telecommunication ports connected to indoor
cables 31

9.7.2.3 Test method for AC power ports 31

9.7.3 Performance criteria 31

Annex A (informative): Change history 31

 Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:

**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something

**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something

The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the
context of normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.

The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes
for \"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as
possible, and they are not used in a normative context except in a
direct citation from an external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so
as to maintain continuity of style when extending or modifying the
provisions of such a referenced document.

**should** indicates a recommendation to do something

**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something

**may** indicates permission to do something

**need not** indicates permission not to do something

The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\"
are used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.

**can** indicates that something is possible

**cannot** indicates that something is impossible

The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\"
and \"need not\".

**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a
result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside
the scope of the present document

**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to
happen as a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which
is outside the scope of the present document

**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result
of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document

**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside
the scope of the present document

In addition:

**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement
of fact

**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates
a statement of fact

The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.

1 Scope
=======

The present document covers the assessment for NR Integrated access and
backhaul (IAB) node and associated ancillary equipment in respect of
Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC).

The present document specifies the applicable test conditions,
performance assessment and performance criteria for NR Integrated access
and backhaul (IAB) node and associated ancillary equipment.

Technical requirements related to the antenna and TAB connectors are not
included in the present document. These are found in the relevant
product standards \[2, 24, 25\].

The environment classification used in the present document refers to
the residential, commercial and light industrial environment
classification used in IEC 61000-6-1 \[4\], IEC 61000-6-3 \[5\] and IEC
61000-6-8 \[26\].

The EMC requirements have been selected to ensure an adequate level of
compatibility for apparatus at residential, commercial and light
industrial environments. The levels, however, do not cover extreme cases
which may occur in any location but with low probability of occurrence.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\"

\[2\] 3GPP TS 38.174: \"NR; Integrated access and backhaul radio
transmission and reception\".

\[3\] 3GPP TR 38.809: \"NR; Background for Integrated access and
backhaul radio transmission and reception\".

\[4\] IEC 61000-6-1: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 6-1:
Generic standards - Immunity for residential, commercial and
light-industrial environments\".

\[5\] IEC 61000-6-3: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 6-3:
Generic standards - Emission standard for equipment in residential
environments\".

\[6\] CISPR 32: \"Electromagnetic compatibility of multimedia equipment
- Emission requirements\".

\[7\] IEC 60050-161: \"International Electrotechnical Vocabulary (IEV) -
Part 161: Electromagnetic compatibility\".

\[8\] IEC 61000-3-2: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 3-2:
Limits - Limits for harmonic current emissions (equipment input current
≤ 16 A per phase)\".

\[9\] IEC 61000-3-12: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 3-12:
Limits - Limits for harmonic currents produced by equipment connected to
public low-voltage system with input current \>16 A and ≤ 75 A per
phase\".

\[10\] IEC 61000-3-3: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 3-3:
Limits - Limitation of voltage changes, voltage fluctuations and flicker
in low-voltage supply systems, for equipment with rated current ≤ 16 A
per phase and not subject to conditional connection\".

\[11\] IEC 61000-3-11: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part
3-11: Limits -- Limitation of voltage changes, voltage fluctuations and
flicker in low-voltage supply systems - Equipment with rated current ≤
75 A and subject to conditional connections\".

\[12\] IEC 61000-4-2: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4-2:
Testing and measurement techniques - Electrostatic discharge immunity
test\".

\[13\] IEC 61000-4-3: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4-3:
Testing and measurement techniques - Radiated, radio-frequency,
electromagnetic field immunity test\".

\[14\] IEC 61000-4-4: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4-4:
Testing and measurement techniques - Electrical fast transient/burst
immunity test\".

\[15\] IEC 61000-4-5: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4-5:
Testing and measurement techniques - Surge immunity test\".

\[16\] IEC 61000-4-6: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4-6:
Testing and measurement techniques - Immunity to conducted disturbances,
induced by radio frequency fields\".

\[17\] IEC 61000-4-11: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part
4-11: Testing and measurement techniques - Voltage dips, short
interruptions and voltage variations immunity tests\".

\[18\] IEC 61000-4-21: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part
4-21: Testing and measurement techniques - Reverberation chamber test
methods\".

\[19\] ETSI EN 301 489-1: \"ElectroMagnetic Compatibility (EMC) standard
for radio equipment and services; Part 1: Common technical requirements;
Harmonised Standard covering the essential requirements of article
3.1(b) of Directive 2014/53/EU and the essential requirements of article
6 of Directive 2014/30/EU\".

\[20\] Recommendation ITU-R SM.329: \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious
domain\".

\[21\] Recommendation ITU-R SM.1539: \"Variation of the boundary between
the out-of-band and spurious domains required for the application of
Recommendations ITU-R SM.1541 and ITU-R SM.329\".

\[22\] 3GPP TS 38.104: "NR; Base Station (BS) radio transmission and
reception"

\[23\] CISPR 16-1-4: 2019-01: \"Specification for radio disturbance and
immunity measuring apparatus and methods -- Part 1-4: Radio disturbance
and immunity measuring apparatus -- Antennas and test sites for radiated
disturbance measurements\"

\[24\] 3GPP TS 38.176-1: \"NR; Integrated access and backhaul (IAB)
conformance testing; Part 1: Conducted conformance testing\".

\[25\] 3GPP TS 38.176-2: \"NR; Integrated Access and Backhaul (IAB)
conformance testing; Part 2: Radiated conformance testing;\".

\[26\] IEC 61000-6-8:\"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 6-8:
Generic standards - Emission standard for professional equipment in
commercial and light-industrial locations\".

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term,
if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

**channel bandwidth:** the RF bandwidth supporting a single NR RF
carrier with the transmission bandwidth configured in the uplink or
downlink of a cell. The *channel bandwidth* is measured in MHz and is
used as a reference for transmitter and receiver RF requirements.

**continuous phenomena:** electromagnetic disturbance, the effects of
which on a particular device or equipment cannot be resolved into a
succession of distinct effects (IEC 60050-161 \[7\]).

**enclosure port: physical boundary of the equipment through which
electromagnetic fields may radiate or impinge.**

NOTE: In the case of *integral antenna* equipment, this port is
inseparable from the antenna port.

**exclusion band:** frequency range(s) not subject to test or
assessment.

**IAB-node**: RAN node that supports wireless access to UEs and
wirelessly backhauls the access traffic.

**IAB type 1-H:** IAB-MT and IAB-DU operating at FR1 with a requirement
set holding requirements defined at the respective TAB and OTA
requirements defined at the respective RIB

**IAB type 1-O:** IAB-MT and IAB-DU operating at FR1 with a requirement
set consisting only of OTA requirements defined at the respective RIB.

**IAB type 2-O:** IAB-MT and IAB-DU operating at FR2 with a requirement
set consisting only of OTA requirements defined at the respective RIB

**integral antenna: antenna designed for permanent connection to the
equipment and considered part of the enclosure port.**

NOTE: An *integral antenna* may be fitted internally or externally.

**operating band:** frequency range in which NR operates (paired or
unpaired), that is defined with a specific set of technical
requirements.

**port: particular interface of EUT used for EMC requirements testing
purposes.**

NOTE: Any connection point on EUT intended for connection of cables to
or from EUT during the EMC testing is considered as a port.

EXAMPLE 1: Examples of ports for *IAB type 1-H* are as presented in
figure 3.1‑1:

![](media/image3.emf){width="6.53125in" height="1.9583333333333333in"}

Figure 3.1-1: Examples of *port*s for *IAB type 1-H*

EXAMPLE 2: Examples of *port*s for *IAB type 1-O* and *IAB type 2-O*
(i.e. with no *antenna ports*) are as presented in figure 3.1-2:

![](media/image4.emf){width="6.510416666666667in" height="1.78125in"}

Figure 3.1-2: Examples of *port*s for *IAB type 1-O* and *IAB type 2-O*

**receiver exclusion band:** band of frequencies over which no tests of
radiated immunity of a receiver are made, and expressed relative to the
IAB receive band.

**signal port:** *port* intended for the interconnection of components
of an EUT, or between an EUT and associated equipment and used in
accordance with relevant functional specifications (for example for the
maximum length of cable connected to it).

**spatial exclusion zone: range of angles where no tests of radiated
immunity are made for *IAB type 1-O* or *IAB type 2-O* (i.e. half sphere
around the EUT\'s radiating direction).**

**Throughput: number of payload bits successfully received per second
for a reference measurement channel in a specified reference
condition.**

**telecommunication port:** *ports* which are intended to be connected
to telecommunication networks (e.g. public switched telecommunication
networks, integrated services digital networks), local area networks
(e.g. Ethernet, Token Ring) and similar networks.

NOTE: *Telecommunication port* is called \"wired network port\" in CISPR
32 \[6\] and ETSI EN 301 489-1 \[19\].

**transient phenomena:** pertaining to or designating a phenomena or a
quantity which varies between two consecutive steady states during a
time interval short compared with the time-scale of interest
(IEC 60050-161 \[7\]).

3.2 Symbols
-----------

For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:

BW~Channel~ Channel bandwidth

> Δf~OBUE~ Maximum offset of the *operating band* unwanted emissions
> mask from the downlink *operating band* edge
>
> F~DL,low~ The lowest frequency of the downlink *operating band*

F~DL,high~ The highest frequency of the downlink *operating band*

F~UL,low~ The lowest frequency of the uplink *operating band*

F~UL,high~ The highest frequency of the uplink *operating band*

3.3 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

> AC Alternating Current
>
> AMN Artificial Mains Network
>
> BC Band Category
>
> BH Backhaul
>
> CA Carrier Aggregation
>
> CDN Coupling/Decoupling Network
>
> CS Capability Set
>
> DC Direct Current
>
> EIRP Equivalent Isotropic Radiated Power
>
> EMC Electromagnetic Compatibility
>
> e.r.p. Effective Radiated Power
>
> ESD Electrostatic Discharge
>
> EUT Equipment Under Test
>
> FR Frequency Range
>
> FRC Fixed Reference Channel
>
> IAB Integrated Access and Backhaul
>
> NC Non Contiguous
>
> NG Next Generation
>
> NGC Next Generation Core
>
> NR New Radio
>
> NR-ARFCN NR Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
>
> NRTC NR Test Configuration
>
> NTC Test Configuration for Non-contiguous operation
>
> RAT Radio Access Technology
>
> RF Radio Frequency
>
> RIB Radiated Interface Boundary
>
> rms root mean square
>
> SC Single Carrier
>
> TC Test Configuration

4 Test conditions
=================

4.1 General
-----------

Requirements throughout the EMC specifications are in some cases defined
separately for different frequency ranges (FR). The frequency ranges FR1
and FR2 are defined in subclause 5.1 of TS 38.174 \[2\].

The equipment shall be tested in normal test environment defined in the
corresponding IAB conformance testing specification TS38.176-1\[24\] and
TS38.176-2\[25\]. The test conditions shall be recorded in the test
report.

For IAB Node capable of multi-band operation, the requirements in the
present document apply for each supported *operating band* unless
otherwise stated. *Operating bands* shall be activated according to the
test configuration in subclause 4.5. Tests shall be performed relating
to each type of *port* and all *operating bands* shall be assessed
during the tests.

The manufacturer shall declare the supported *operating band(s)*
according to the list of NR IAB *operating bands* defined in TS 38.174
\[2\].

> NOTE 1: NR IAB *operating bands* for IAB *type 1-H*, are declared by
> the manufacturer according to the declarations specified in
> TS38.176-1\[24\], Table 4.6-1 and TS38.176-2\[25\],Table 4.6-1.

NOTE 2: NR IAB *operating bands* for *IAB type 1-O* and *IAB type 2-O,*
are declared by the manufacturer according to the declarations specified
in TS38.176-2\[25\], Table 4.6-1.

4.2 Arrangements for establishing a communication link
------------------------------------------------------

The wanted RF input signal nominal frequency shall be selected by
setting the NR Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number (NR-ARFCN) to an
appropriate number.

A communication link shall be set up with a suitable test system capable
of evaluating the required performance criteria (hereafter called \"the
test system\") at the radio interface and *telecommunication port/ports*
(the NG interface). The test system shall be located outside of the test
environment.

When the EUT is required to be in the transmit/receive mode, the
following conditions shall be met:

\- For the *IAB type 1-H* testing, the EUT shall be commanded to operate
at rated transmit power;

\- For the *IAB type 1-O* and *IAB type 2-O* testing, the EUT transmit
power shall be configured as stated in clause 8.1 for emission test and
clause 9.1 for immunity test accordingly,

\- Adequate measures shall be taken to avoid the effect of the unwanted
signal on the measuring equipment;

\- The wanted input signal level shall be set to a level where the
performance is not limited by the receiver noise floor or strong signal
effects.

NOTE: 15 dB above the conducted reference sensitivity level has been
used as an example of wanted input signal level in legacy 3GPP EMC
specifications for establishing a communication link.

For immunity tests clause 4.3 shall apply and the conditions shall be as
follows.

4.3 Narrow band responses on receivers
--------------------------------------

Responses on receivers or duplex transceivers occurring during the
immunity test at discrete frequencies which are narrow band responses
(spurious responses), are identified by the following method:

\- if during an immunity test the quantity being monitored goes outside
the specified tolerances (clause 6), it is necessary to establish
whether the deviation is due to a narrow band response or to a wide band
(EMC) phenomenon. Therefore, the test shall be repeated with the
unwanted signal frequency increased, and then decreased by 2 x
BW~Channel~ MHz, where BW~Channel~ is the channel bandwidth as defined
in TS 38.174 \[2\], clause 5.3;

\- if the deviation disappears in either one or both of the above MHz
offset cases, then the response is considered as a narrow band response;

\- if the deviation does not disappear, this may be due to the fact that
the offset has made the frequency of the unwanted signal correspond to
the frequency of another narrow band response. Under these circumstances
the procedure is repeated with the increase and decrease of the
frequency of the unwanted signal set to 2.5 x BW~Channel~ MHz;

\- if the deviation does not disappear with the increased and/or
decreased frequency, the phenomenon is considered wide band and
therefore an EMC problem and the equipment fails the test.

For immunity test narrow band responses are disregarded.

4.4 Exclusion bands
-------------------

### 4.4.1 Transmitter exclusion band

The *transmitter exclusion band* for IAB is the frequency range over
which no tests of radiated immunity of a transmitter are made. As the
IAB node may operate its access and backhaul link in different NR IAB
*operating band*, the *transmitter exclusion band* for IAB applies
separately for the access and backhaul link. The *transmitter exclusion
band applies to IAB type 1-O.*

The *transmitter exclusion band* is defined as:

F~DL,low~ -- Δf~OBUE~ \<f \< F~DL,high~ + Δf~OBUE~

Where:

\- Values of F~DL,low~ and F~DL,high,\ FUL,low\ and\ FUL,high~ are
defined for each NR IAB *operating band* in TS 38.174 \[2\], clause 5.2.

\- The value of Δf~OBUE~ is derived considering the width of the NR IAB
*operating band*, and is defined as in table 4.4.1-1 and table 4.4.1-2.

Table 4.4.1-1: Δf~OBUE~ offset value for NR *IAB-DU*

  IAB-DU type         *Operating band* characteristics              Δf~OBUE~ (MHz)
  ------------------- --------------------------------------------- ----------------
  *IAB-DU type 1-O*   F~DL,high~ -- F~DL,low~ \< 100 MHz            10
                      100 MHz ≤ F~DL,high~ -- F~DL,low~ ≤ 900 MHz   40

Table 4.4.1-2: Δf~OBUE~ offset value *for NR IAB-MT*

  IAB-MT type         *Operating band* characteristics              Δf~OBUE~ (MHz)
  ------------------- --------------------------------------------- ----------------
  *IAB-MT type 1-O*   F~UL,high~ -- F~UL,low~ \< 100 MHz            10
                      100 MHz ≤ F~UL,high~ -- F~UL,low~ ≤ 900 MHz   40

For IAB node capable of multi-band operation, the total transmitter
exclusion band is a combination of the exclusion bands for each
operating band supported by IAB node.

NOTE: As the radiated immunity testing is defined in the frequency range
80 MHz to 6 GHz, there is no *transmitter exclusion band* defined for
*IAB type 2-O*.

### 4.4.2 Receiver exclusion band

The *receiver exclusion band* for IAB is the frequency range over which
no tests of radiated immunity of a receiver are made. As the IAB node
may operate its access and backhaul link in different NR IAB *operating
band*, the *receiver exclusion band* for IAB applies separately for the
access and backhaul link. The *receiver exclusion band applies to IAB
type 1-O.*

The *receiver exclusion band* is defined as:

F~UL,low~ -- Δf~RX~ \<f \< F~UL,high~ + Δf~RX~

Where:

\- Values of F~UL,low~ and F~UL,high~ are defined for each NR IAB
*operating band* in in TS 38.174 \[2\], clause 5.2.

\- The value of Δf~RX~ is derived considering the width of the NR IAB
*operating band*, and is defined as in table 4.4.2-1. Value of the
Δf~RX~ also depends on the RI test setup, i.e. whether or not the
*spatial exclusion zone* (as described in subclause 9.2.2) is considered
during the RI test.

Table 4.4.1-1: Δf~RX~ offset values for IAB

  IAB type         IAB o*perating band* characteristics          RI test setup            Δf~RX~ (MHz)
  ---------------- --------------------------------------------- ------------------------ --------------
  IAB type 1-*O*   F~UL,high~ -- F~UL,low~ \< 100 MHz            With exclusion zone      20
                                                                 Without exclusion zone   60
                   100 MHz ≤ F~UL,high~ -- F~UL,low~ ≤ 900 MHz   With exclusion zone      60
                                                                 Without exclusion zone   200

NOTE: As the radiated immunity testing is defined in the frequency range
80 MHz to 6 GHz, there is no *receiver exclusion band* defined for *IAB
type 2-O*.

4.5 IAB test configurations
---------------------------

The present clause defines the IAB test configurations that shall be
used for demonstrating conformance. A single IAB carrier shall be used
for testing of single-carrier capable IAB.

Single carrier configuration (SC) tests shall be performed using signal
with narrowest supported *IAB channel bandwidth* with the smallest
supported subcarrier spacing declared per *operating band in TS 38.176-1
\[24\] clause 4.6, and TS 38.176-2 \[25\] clause 4.6.*

For other IAB node, the test configurations in table 4.5-1 and table
4.5-2 shall be used. The IAB test configurations (IABTCx) are defined in
TS 38.176-1 \[24\], clause 4.7 for *IAB type 1-H* and in TS 38.176-2
\[25\], clause 4.7 for *IAB type 1-O* and *IAB type 2-O*.

Table 4.5-1: Test configurations for *IAB type 1-H*

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| IAB test | IAB      | IAB      |          |          |          |
| case     | capable  | capable  |          |          |          |
|          | of       | of       |          |          |          |
|          | multi    | mu       |          |          |          |
|          | -carrier | lti-band |          |          |          |
|          | and/or   | o        |          |          |          |
|          | CA in a  | peration |          |          |          |
|          | single   |          |          |          |          |
|          | band     |          |          |          |          |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+
|          | Co       | C and NC | C and NC | Common   | Separate |
|          | ntiguous | capable  | capable  | c        | co       |
|          | spectrum | IAB with | IAB with | onnector | nnectors |
|          | capable  | i        | d        |          |          |
|          | IAB      | dentical | ifferent |          |          |
|          |          | pa       | pa       |          |          |
|          |          | rameters | rameters |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Emission | IABTC1   | IABTC3   | IABTC1,  | IABTC1/3 | IABTC1/3 |
| tests    |          |          | IABTC3   | (Note    | (Note 1, |
|          |          |          |          | 1),      | 2),      |
|          |          |          |          | IABTC5   | IABTC5   |
|          |          |          |          |          | (Note 2) |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Immunity | IABTC1   | IABTC3   | IABTC1,  | IABTC5   | IABTC1/3 |
| tests    |          |          | IABTC3   |          | (Note    |
|          |          |          |          |          | 1),      |
|          |          |          |          |          | IABTC5   |
|          |          |          |          |          | (Note 3) |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Note 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| IABTC1   |          |          |          |          |          |
| and/or   |          |          |          |          |          |
| IABTC3   |          |          |          |          |          |
| shall be |          |          |          |          |          |
| applied  |          |          |          |          |          |
| in each  |          |          |          |          |          |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |
| upported |          |          |          |          |          |
| *o       |          |          |          |          |          |
| perating |          |          |          |          |          |
| band*.   |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| Note 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| For      |          |          |          |          |          |
| sin      |          |          |          |          |          |
| gle-band |          |          |          |          |          |
| o        |          |          |          |          |          |
| peration |          |          |          |          |          |
| test,    |          |          |          |          |          |
| other    |          |          |          |          |          |
| TAB      |          |          |          |          |          |
| conn     |          |          |          |          |          |
| ector(s) |          |          |          |          |          |
| is (are) |          |          |          |          |          |
| ter      |          |          |          |          |          |
| minated. |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| Note 3:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| IABTC5   |          |          |          |          |          |
| is only  |          |          |          |          |          |
| ap       |          |          |          |          |          |
| plicable |          |          |          |          |          |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |
| mu       |          |          |          |          |          |
| lti-band |          |          |          |          |          |
| r        |          |          |          |          |          |
| eceiver. |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

Table 4.5-2: Test configurations for *IAB type 1-O*

  IAB test case                                                                       *single-band RIB*                 multi-band RIB                                                                                    
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------
                                                                                      Contiguous spectrum capable IAB   C and NC capable IAB with identical parameters   C and NC capable IAB with different parameters   
  Emission tests                                                                      IABTC1                            IABTC3                                           IABTC1, IABTC3                                   IABTC1/3 (Note 1), IABTC5
  Immunity tests                                                                      IABTC1                            IABTC3                                           IABTC1, IABTC3                                   IABTC5
  NOTE 1: IABTC1 and/or IABTC3 shall be applied in each supported *operating band*.                                                                                                                                       

Table 4.5-3: Test configurations for *IAB type 2-O*

  IAB test case    *single-band RIB*                                                                  
  ---------------- --------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------
                   Contiguous spectrum capable IAB   C and NC capable IAB with identical parameters   C and NC capable IAB with different parameters
  Emission tests   IABTC1                            IABTC3                                           IABTC1, IABTC3
  Immunity tests   IABTC1                            IABTC3                                           IABTC1, IABTC3

5 Performance assessment
========================

5.1 General
-----------

The following information shall be recorded in or annexed to the test
report:

\- the primary functions of the radio equipment to be tested during and
after the EMC testing;

\- the intended functions of the radio equipment which shall be in
accordance with the documentation accompanying the equipment;

\- the method to be used to verify that a communications link is
established and maintained;

\- the user-control functions and stored data that are required for
normal operation and the method to be used to assess whether these have
been lost after EMC stress;

\- the *ancillary equipment* to be combined with the radio equipment for
testing (where applicable);

\- the information about *ancillary equipment* intended to be used with
the radio equipment;

\- information about the common and/or band-specific active RF
components and other hardware blocks for a communication link in IAB
node capable of multi-band operation;

\- an exhaustive list of *ports* (and *RIBs*), classified as either
power or signal/control. Power *ports* shall further be classified as AC
or DC power.

Performance assessment of a IAB Node with multiple enclosures may be
done separately for the IAB Node part with the Radio digital unit and
the Radio unit respectively, according to the manufacturer\'s choice.

A communication link used by more than one operating band, shall be
assessed on all operating bands. Communication link(s) and/or radio
performance parameters for the operating bands can during the test be
assessed simultaneously or separately for each band, depending on the
test environment capability.

5.2 Assessment of throughput of IAB-DU
--------------------------------------

For downlink assessment of the IAB-DU, a communication link shall be
established between the transmitter (via port for the IAB type 1-H, or
via RIB for the IAB type 1-O and IAB type 2-O) and the test equipment.
Test equipment shall meet the requirements for the throughput assessment
defined in TS38.176-1\[24\] and TS38.176-2\[25\] for the bearer used in
the immunity tests. The level of the signal supplied to the equipment
should be within the range for which the assessment of throughput is not
impaired. Power control shall be OFF during the immunity testing.

For uplink assessment of the IAB-DU, the value of the throughput at the
output of the receiver shall be monitored at NG interface by using
suitable test equipment.

5.3 Assessment of throughput of IAB-MT
--------------------------------------

The test arrangement and signals, given in clause 4, apply to IAB-MT.
The assessment of equipment performance shall be based on data transfer
according to the criteria in clause 6.

5.4 Ancillary equipment
-----------------------

At the manufacturer\'s discretion the test may be performed on the
ancillary equipment separately or on a representative configuration of
the combination of radio and ancillary equipment. In each case EUT is
tested against all applicable immunity and emission clauses of the
present document and in each case, compliance enables the ancillary
equipment to be used with different radio equipment.

6 Performance criteria
======================

6.1 Performance criteria for continuous phenomena for IAB
---------------------------------------------------------

The test should, where possible, be performed using a bearer with the
characteristics of data rate and throughput defined in table 6.1-1 and
table 6.1-2. If the test is not performed using one of these bearers
(for example, none of them are supported by the IAB node), the
characteristics of the bearer used shall be recorded in the test report.

The throughput in table 6.1-1 and table 6.1-2 is stated relative to the
maximum throughput of the FRC.

The IAB node uplink and downlink paths shall each meet the performance
criteria defined in table 6.1-1 and table 6.1-2 during the test. If the
uplink and downlink paths are evaluated as a one loop then the criteria
is two times the throughput reduction shown in table 6.1-1 and table
6.1-2 (i.e. throughput \> 90 % instead of throughput \> 95 %). After
each test case IAB node shall operate as intended with no loss of user
control function, stored data and the communication link to both UE and
donor test equipment shall be maintained.

Table 6.1-1: FR1 performance criteria for continuous phenomena for IAB

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| NR channel  | Sub-carrier | Bearer      | Bearer      | Performance |
| bandwidth   | spacing     | information | information | criteria    |
| (MHz)       | (kHz)       | data rate   | data rate   |             |
|             |             | for IAB-MT  | for IAB-DU  | (Note 1,    |
|             |             |             |             | Note 2)     |
+=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+
| 10, 15      | 30          | G-FR1-A1-22 | *           | Throughput  |
|             |             | **in annex  | *G-FR1-A1-2 | \> 95 %,    |
|             |             | A.1 in TS   | in annex    |             |
|             |             | 38.174      | A.1 in TS   | no loss of  |
|             |             | \[2\]**     | 38.104      | service     |
|             |             |             | \[22\]**    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 10, 15      | 60          | G-FR1-A1-23 | *           |             |
|             |             | **in annex  | *G-FR1-A1-3 |             |
|             |             | A.1 in TS   | in annex    |             |
|             |             | 38.174      | A.1 in TS   |             |
|             |             | \[2\]**     | 38.104      |             |
|             |             |             | \[22\]**    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 20, 25, 30, | 30          | G-FR1-A1-25 | *           |             |
| 40, 50, 60, |             | **in annex  | *G-FR1-A1-5 |             |
| 70, 80, 90, |             | A.1 in TS   | in annex    |             |
| 100         |             | 38.174      | A.1 in TS   |             |
|             |             | \[2\]**     | 38.104      |             |
|             |             |             | \[22\]**    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 20, 25, 30, | 60          | G-FR1-A1-26 | *           |             |
| 40, 50, 60, |             | **in annex  | *G-FR1-A1-6 |             |
| 70, 80, 90, |             | A.1 in TS   | in annex    |             |
| 100         |             | 38.174      | A.1 in TS   |             |
|             |             | \[2\]**     | 38.104      |             |
|             |             |             | \[22\]**    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| NOTE 1: The |             |             |             |             |
| performance |             |             |             |             |
| criteria,   |             |             |             |             |
| throughput  |             |             |             |             |
| \> 95 %, no |             |             |             |             |
| loss of     |             |             |             |             |
| service,    |             |             |             |             |
| applies     |             |             |             |             |
| also if a   |             |             |             |             |
| bearer with |             |             |             |             |
| another     |             |             |             |             |
| char        |             |             |             |             |
| acteristics |             |             |             |             |
| is used in  |             |             |             |             |
| the test.   |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| NOTE 2: The |             |             |             |             |
| performance |             |             |             |             |
| criteria,   |             |             |             |             |
| throughput  |             |             |             |             |
| \> 90 %, no |             |             |             |             |
| loss of     |             |             |             |             |
| service,    |             |             |             |             |
| applies     |             |             |             |             |
| instead if  |             |             |             |             |
| the uplink  |             |             |             |             |
| and         |             |             |             |             |
| downlink    |             |             |             |             |
| paths are   |             |             |             |             |
| evaluated   |             |             |             |             |
| as a one    |             |             |             |             |
| loop.       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 6.1-2: FR2 performance criteria for continuous phenomena for IAB

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| NR channel  | Sub-carrier | Bearer      | Bearer      | Performance |
| bandwidth   | spacing     | information | information | criteria    |
| (MHz)       | (kHz)       | data rate   | data rate   |             |
|             |             | for IAB-MT  | for IAB-DU  | (Note 1,    |
|             |             |             |             | Note 2)     |
+=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+
| 50, 100,    | 60          | G-FR2-A1-21 | G-FR2-A1-1  | Throughput  |
| 200         |             | **in annex  | in annex    | \> 95 %,    |
|             |             | A.1 in TS   | A.1 in TS   |             |
|             |             | 38.174      | 38.104      | no loss of  |
|             |             | \[2\]**     | \[22\]      | service     |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 50          | 120         | G-FR2-A1-22 | G-FR2-A1-2  |             |
|             |             | **in annex  | in annex    |             |
|             |             | A.1 in TS   | A.1 in TS   |             |
|             |             | 38.174      | 38.104      |             |
|             |             | \[2\]**     | \[22\]      |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 100, 200,   | 120         | G-FR2-A1-23 | G-FR2-A1-3  |             |
| 400         |             | **in annex  | in annex    |             |
|             |             | A.1 in TS   | A.1 in TS   |             |
|             |             | 38.174      | 38.104      |             |
|             |             | \[2\]**     | \[22\]      |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| NOTE 1: The |             |             |             |             |
| performance |             |             |             |             |
| criteria,   |             |             |             |             |
| throughput  |             |             |             |             |
| \> 95 %, no |             |             |             |             |
| loss of     |             |             |             |             |
| service,    |             |             |             |             |
| applies     |             |             |             |             |
| also if a   |             |             |             |             |
| bearer with |             |             |             |             |
| another     |             |             |             |             |
| char        |             |             |             |             |
| acteristics |             |             |             |             |
| is used in  |             |             |             |             |
| the test.   |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| NOTE 2: The |             |             |             |             |
| performance |             |             |             |             |
| criteria,   |             |             |             |             |
| throughput  |             |             |             |             |
| \> 90 %, no |             |             |             |             |
| loss of     |             |             |             |             |
| service,    |             |             |             |             |
| applies     |             |             |             |             |
| instead if  |             |             |             |             |
| the uplink  |             |             |             |             |
| and         |             |             |             |             |
| downlink    |             |             |             |             |
| paths are   |             |             |             |             |
| evaluated   |             |             |             |             |
| as a one    |             |             |             |             |
| loop.       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

6.2 Performance criteria for transient phenomena for IAB
--------------------------------------------------------

At the conclusion of the total test (comprising the series of individual
exposures to transient phenomena) the IAB node shall operate as intended
with no user noticeable loss of control functions or stored data. At the
conclusion of each exposure the IAB node shall operate with no user
noticeable loss of the communication link to both UE and donor test
equipment.

The channel bandwidth, sub-carrier spacing and bearer information data
rate should be chosen based on manufacturer's declaration and defined
according to table 6.1-1 and table 6.1-2.

6.3 Performance criteria for continuous phenomena for Ancillary equipment
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

The apparatus shall continue to operate as intended during and after the
test. No degradation of performance or loss of function is allowed below
the performance level specified by the manufacturer, when the apparatus
is used as intended. The performance level may be replaced by a
permissible performance loss. If the minimum performance level or the
permissible performance loss is not specified by the manufacturer,
either of these may be derived from the product description and
documentation and what the user may reasonably expect from the apparatus
if used as intended.

6.4 Performance criteria for transient phenomena for Ancillary equipment
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The apparatus shall continue to operate as intended after the test. No
degradation of performance or loss of function is allowed below the
performance level specified by the manufacturer, when the apparatus is
used as intended. The performance level may be replaced by a permissible
performance loss. During the test, degradation of performance is however
allowed. If the minimum performance level or the permissible performance
loss is not specified by the manufacturer, either of these may be
derived from the product description and documentation and what the user
may reasonably expect from the apparatus if used as intended.

7 Applicability overview
========================

7.1 Emission
------------

Throughout this specification, whenever the IAB requirement is referred,
its applicability shall be considered as applicable to the IAB node as a
whole (MT and DU), irrespective of its implementation. Performance
assessment of an IAB node with multiple enclosures may be done
separately for each of them, according to the manufacturer\'s choice.

Table 7.1-1: Emission requirements applicability

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Ph       | App      | E        | R        | R        |          |
| enomenon | lication | quipment | eference | eference |          |
|          |          | test     |          |          |          |
|          |          | req      | clause   | standard |          |
|          |          | uirement | in the   |          |          |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+
|          |          | IAB      | A        | present  |          |
|          |          | e        | ncillary | document |          |
|          |          | quipment | e        |          |          |
|          |          |          | quipment |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Radiated | IAB      | ap       | not      | 8.2.1    | ITU-R    |
| emission | e        | plicable | ap       |          | SM.329   |
|          | nclosure | for *IAB | plicable |          | \[20\]   |
|          |          | type     |          |          |          |
|          | (Note 1) | 1-H*     |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          | (Note 2) |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Radiated | E        | not      | ap       | 8.2.2    | CISPR 32 |
| emission | nclosure | ap       | plicable |          | \[6\]    |
|          | of       | plicable |          |          |          |
|          | *a       |          |          |          |          |
|          | ncillary |          |          |          |          |
|          | eq       |          |          |          |          |
|          | uipment* |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| C        | DC power | ap       | ap       | 8.3      | CISPR    |
| onducted | inpu     | plicable | plicable |          | 32 \[6\] |
| emission | t/output |          |          |          |          |
|          | *port*   |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| C        | AC mains | ap       | ap       | 8.4      | CISPR    |
| onducted | inpu     | plicable | plicable |          | 32 \[6\] |
| emission | t/output |          |          |          |          |
|          | *port*   |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| C        | *T       | ap       | ap       | 8.5      | CISPR 32 |
| onducted | elecommu | plicable | plicable |          | \[6\]    |
| emission | nication |          |          |          |          |
|          | port*    |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Harmonic | AC mains | ap       | ap       | 8.6      | IEC      |
| current  | input    | plicable | plicable |          | 61000-3  |
| e        | *port*   |          |          |          | -2 \[8\] |
| missions |          |          |          |          | or\      |
|          |          |          |          |          | IEC      |
|          |          |          |          |          | 61       |
|          |          |          |          |          | 000-3-12 |
|          |          |          |          |          | \[9\]    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Voltage  | AC mains | ap       | ap       | 8.7      | IEC      |
| fluc     | input    | plicable | plicable |          | 61000-3- |
| tuations | *port*   |          |          |          | 3 \[10\] |
| and      |          |          |          |          | or\      |
| flicker  |          |          |          |          | IEC      |
|          |          |          |          |          | 6        |
|          |          |          |          |          | 1000-3-1 |
|          |          |          |          |          | 1 \[11\] |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Radiated |          |          |          |          |          |
| emission |          |          |          |          |          |
| mea      |          |          |          |          |          |
| surement |          |          |          |          |          |
| of an    |          |          |          |          |          |
| IAB node |          |          |          |          |          |
| with     |          |          |          |          |          |
| multiple |          |          |          |          |          |
| en       |          |          |          |          |          |
| closures |          |          |          |          |          |
| may be   |          |          |          |          |          |
| done     |          |          |          |          |          |
| se       |          |          |          |          |          |
| parately |          |          |          |          |          |
| for each |          |          |          |          |          |
| of them, |          |          |          |          |          |
| a        |          |          |          |          |          |
| ccording |          |          |          |          |          |
| to the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| manufac  |          |          |          |          |          |
| turer\'s |          |          |          |          |          |
| choice.  |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Radiated |          |          |          |          |          |
| emission |          |          |          |          |          |
| requ     |          |          |          |          |          |
| irements |          |          |          |          |          |
| for *IAB |          |          |          |          |          |
| type     |          |          |          |          |          |
| 1-O* and |          |          |          |          |          |
| *IAB     |          |          |          |          |          |
| type     |          |          |          |          |          |
| 2-O* are |          |          |          |          |          |
| d        |          |          |          |          |          |
| escribed |          |          |          |          |          |
| in       |          |          |          |          |          |
| clause   |          |          |          |          |          |
| 8.2.1.   |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

7.2 Immunity
------------

Table 7.2-1: Immunity requirements applicability

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Ph       | App      | E        | R        | R        |          |
| enomenon | lication | quipment | eference | eference |          |
|          |          | test     | clause   |          |          |
|          |          | req      |          |          |          |
|          |          | uirement |          |          |          |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+
|          |          | IAB      | A        | in the   | standard |
|          |          | e        | ncillary | present  |          |
|          |          | quipment | e        | document |          |
|          |          |          | quipment |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| RF       | E        | ap       | ap       | 9.2      | IEC      |
| electro­ | nclosure | plicable | plicable |          | 61000-4- |
| magnetic |          |          |          |          | 3 \[13\] |
| field    |          |          |          |          |          |
| (80 --   |          |          |          |          |          |
| 6000     |          |          |          |          |          |
| MHz)     |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Elect    | E        | ap       | ap       | 9.3      | IEC      |
| rostatic | nclosure | plicable | plicable |          | 61000-4- |
| d        |          |          |          |          | 2 \[12\] |
| ischarge |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Fast     | Signal,  | ap       | ap       | 9.4      | IEC      |
| tr       | te       | plicable | plicable |          | 61000-4- |
| ansients | lecommun |          |          |          | 4 \[14\] |
| common   | ications |          |          |          |          |
| mode     | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | control  |          |          |          |          |
|          | *ports*, |          |          |          |          |
|          | DC and   |          |          |          |          |
|          | AC power |          |          |          |          |
|          | input    |          |          |          |          |
|          | *port*s  |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| RF       | Signal,  | ap       | ap       | 9.5      | IEC      |
| common   | te       | plicable | plicable |          | 61000-4- |
| mode     | lecommun |          |          |          | 6 \[16\] |
|          | ications |          |          |          |          |
| 0.15 -   | and      |          |          |          |          |
| 80 MHz   | control  |          |          |          |          |
|          | *port*s, |          |          |          |          |
|          | DC and   |          |          |          |          |
|          | AC power |          |          |          |          |
|          | input    |          |          |          |          |
|          | *port*s  |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Voltage  | AC mains | ap       | ap       | 9.6      | IEC      |
| dips and | power    | plicable | plicable |          | 61       |
| inter    | input    |          |          |          | 000-4-11 |
| ruptions | *port*s  |          |          |          | \[17\]   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Surges,  | AC power | ap       | ap       | 9.7      | IEC      |
| common   | input    | plicable | plicable |          | 61000-4- |
| and      | *port*s  |          |          |          | 5 \[15\] |
| diff     | and      |          |          |          |          |
| erential | *te      |          |          |          |          |
| mode     | lecommun |          |          |          |          |
|          | ications |          |          |          |          |
|          | port*    |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

8 Emission
==========

8.1 Test configurations
-----------------------

This clause defines the configurations for emission tests as follows:

\- The equipment shall be tested under normal test conditions as
specified in the functional standards;

\- The test configuration shall be as close to normal intended use as
possible;

\- If the equipment is part of a system, or can be connected to
ancillary equipment, then it shall be acceptable to test the equipment
while connected to the minimum configuration of *ancillary equipment*
necessary to exercise the *port*s;

\- If the equipment has a large number of *port*s, then a sufficient
number shall be selected to simulate actual operation conditions and to
ensure that all the different types of termination are tested;

\- The test conditions, test configuration and mode of operation shall
be recorded in the test report;

\- *Port*s which in normal operation are connected shall be connected to
an *ancillary equipment* or to a representative piece of cable correctly
terminated to simulate the input/output characteristics of the
*ancillary equipment*; in case of *IAB type 1-H*, *antenna port*s shall
be correctly terminated;

\- For *IAB type 1-O* and *IAB type 2-O* without *antenna ports* but
intentionally radiating through the *antenna array*, the equipment shall
be placed in a test setup suitable for the radiated power;

\- *Port*s which are not connected to cables during normal operation,
e.g. service connectors, programming connectors, temporary connectors
etc. shall not be connected to any cables for the purpose of EMC
testing. Where cables have to be connected to these *port*s, or
interconnecting cables have to be extended in length in order to
exercise the EUT, precautions shall be taken to ensure that the
evaluation of the EUT is not affected by the addition or extension of
these cables;

\- The test arrangements for transmitter and receiver clauses of the
transceiver are described separately for the sake of clarity. However,
where possible the test of the transmitter clause and receiver clause of
the EUT may be carried out simultaneously to reduce test time.

8.2 Radiated emission
---------------------

### 8.2.1 Radiated emission, IAB

This test is applicable to *IAB type 1-H*. This test shall be performed
on a representative configuration of IAB node.

For *IAB type 1-O* and *IAB type 2-O*, the radiated emission is covered
by radiated spurious emission requirement in TS 38.174 \[2\], conforming
to the test requirement in TS 38.174\[2\].

#### 8.2.1.1 Definition

This test assesses the ability of IAB node to limit unwanted emission
from the *enclosure port*.

#### 8.2.1.2 Test method

a\) A test site fulfilling the requirements of ITU-R SM.329 \[20\] shall
be used. The IAB node shall be placed on a non-conducting support and
shall be operated from a power source via a RF filter to avoid radiation
from the power leads. One of the following two alternative measurement
methods shall be used:

1\) Field strength method measurement

The test method shall be in accordance with CISPR 32 \[6\]. The field
strength measurements shall be performed on a test site that is
validated according to the methods and requirements of CISPR 16-1-4
\[23\].

Unless otherwise stated, measurements are conducted at 3 m or 10 m on an
open area test site (OATS) or semi anechoic chamber (SAC) for
frequencies up to 1 GHz, or at 3 m on a free space open area test site
(FSOATS) or fully-anechoic room (FAR) for frequencies above 1 GHz.
Unless otherwise stated, all measurements are done with RMS detector and
with the -3 dB bandwidth of the measuring filter equal to the reference
bandwidth in table 8.2.1.3-1.

NOTE 1: Test site validation methods for radiated emissions tests are
defined in CISPR 16-1-4 \[23\], clause 6 and 7. Examples of test site
validation methods are listed below:

\- 30 - 1000 MHz frequency range: Normalized Site Attenuation (NSA),
Reference Site Method (RSM).

\- 1 - 18 GHz frequency range: S~VSWR~ standard test procedure, S~VSWR~
reciprocal test procedure.

2\) Substitution method measurement (also called a substitution method)

> Mean power of any spurious components shall be detected by the test
> antenna and measuring receiver (e.g. a spectrum analyser). At each
> frequency at which a component is detected, the IAB node shall be
> rotated and the height of the test antenna adjusted to obtain maximum
> response, and the effective radiated power (e.r.p.) of that component
> determined by a substitution measurement. The measurement shall be
> repeated with the test antenna in the orthogonal polarization plane.

NOTE: Effective radiated power (e.r.p.) refers to the radiation of a
half wave tuned dipole instead of an isotropic antenna. There is a
constant difference of 2.15 dB between e.i.r.p. and e.r.p, as defined in
ITU-R SM.329 annex 1 \[20\].

e.r.p. (dBm) = e.i.r.p. (dBm) - 2.15

b\) The IAB node shall transmit with maximum power declared by the
manufacturer with all transmitters active. Set the base station to
transmit a signal as stated in subclause 4.5.

c\) For IAB-DU the received power shall be measured over the frequency
range from 30 MHz to F~DL,low~ - Δf~OBUE~ and from F~DL,high~ +
Δf~OBUE~ up to 12750 MHz. The video bandwidth shall be approximately
three times the resolution bandwidth. If this video bandwidth is not
available on the measuring receiver, it shall be the maximum available
and at least 1 MHz. For some *operating bands*, the upper limit is
higher than 12.75 GHz in order to comply with the 5^th^ harmonic limit
of the downlink *operating band*, as specified in ITU-R recommendation
SM.329 \[20\].Unless otherwise stated, all measurements are done as mean
power (RMS).

d\) For IAB-MT the received power shall be measured over the frequency
range from 30 MHz to F~UL,low~ - Δf~OBUE~ and from F~UL,high~ +
Δf~OBUE~ up to 12750 MHz. The video bandwidth shall be approximately
three times the resolution bandwidth. If this video bandwidth is not
available on the measuring receiver, it shall be the maximum available
and at least 1 MHz. For some *operating bands*, the upper limit is
higher than 12.75 GHz in order to comply with the 5^th^ harmonic limit
of the uplink *operating band*, as specified in ITU-R recommendation
SM.329 \[20\].Unless otherwise stated, all measurements are done as mean
power (RMS).

#### 8.2.1.3 Limits

The frequency boundary and reference bandwidths for the detailed
transitions of the limits between the requirements for out of band
emissions and spurious emissions are based on ITU-R Recommendations
SM.329 \[20\] and SM.1539 \[21\]. The *IAB type 1-H* shall meet the
limits below:

Table 8.2.1.3-1: Limits for radiated emissions from IAB type 1-H

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+------+
| F        | e.r.p.   | Field    | Field    | R        | NOTE |
| requency |          | strength | strength | eference |      |
| Range    | (dBm)    | at 3 m   | at 10 m  | b        |      |
|          |          | (dBµV/m) |          | andwidth |      |
|          |          |          | (dBµV/m) |          |      |
|          |          | (NOTE 4) |          |          |      |
|          |          |          | (NOTE 4) |          |      |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+======+
| 30 MHz ≤ | -36      | 65.4     | 54.9     | 100 kHz  |      |
| f \<     |          | (NOTE 5) | (NOTE 5) |          |      |
| 1000 MHz |          |          |          |          |      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+------+
| 1 GHz ≤  | -30      | 67.4     | Not      | 1 MHz    |      |
| f \<     |          |          | ap       |          |      |
| 12.75    |          |          | plicable |          |      |
| GHz      |          |          |          |          |      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+------+
| 12.75    | -30      | 67.4     | Not      | 1 MHz    | 1    |
| GHz ≤ f  |          |          | ap       |          |      |
| \< 5^th^ |          |          | plicable |          |      |
| harmonic |          |          |          |          |      |
| of the   |          |          |          |          |      |
| upper    |          |          |          |          |      |
| f        |          |          |          |          |      |
| requency |          |          |          |          |      |
| edge of  |          |          |          |          |      |
| the DL   |          |          |          |          |      |
| o        |          |          |          |          |      |
| perating |          |          |          |          |      |
| band in  |          |          |          |          |      |
| GHz      |          |          |          |          |      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+------+
| F        | Not      | Not      | Not      | Not      | 2,3  |
| ~DL,low~ | defined  | defined  | defined  | defined  |      |
| -        |          |          |          |          |      |
| Δf~OBUE~ |          |          |          |          |      |
| \< f \<  |          |          |          |          |      |
| F~       |          |          |          |          |      |
| DL,high~ |          |          |          |          |      |
| +        |          |          |          |          |      |
| Δf~OBUE~ |          |          |          |          |      |
| (for     |          |          |          |          |      |
| IAB-DU)  |          |          |          |          |      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+------+
| F        |          |          |          |          |      |
| ~UL,low~ |          |          |          |          |      |
| -        |          |          |          |          |      |
| Δf~OBUE~ |          |          |          |          |      |
| \< f \<  |          |          |          |          |      |
| F~       |          |          |          |          |      |
| UL,high~ |          |          |          |          |      |
| +        |          |          |          |          |      |
| Δf~OBUE~ |          |          |          |          |      |
| (for     |          |          |          |          |      |
| IAB-MT)  |          |          |          |          |      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+------+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |      |
| For      |          |          |          |          |      |
| IAB-DU,  |          |          |          |          |      |
| this     |          |          |          |          |      |
| spurious |          |          |          |          |      |
| f        |          |          |          |          |      |
| requency |          |          |          |          |      |
| range    |          |          |          |          |      |
| applies  |          |          |          |          |      |
| only for |          |          |          |          |      |
| *o       |          |          |          |          |      |
| perating |          |          |          |          |      |
| bands*   |          |          |          |          |      |
| for      |          |          |          |          |      |
| which    |          |          |          |          |      |
| the      |          |          |          |          |      |
| 5^th^    |          |          |          |          |      |
| harmonic |          |          |          |          |      |
| of the   |          |          |          |          |      |
| upper    |          |          |          |          |      |
| f        |          |          |          |          |      |
| requency |          |          |          |          |      |
| edge of  |          |          |          |          |      |
| the DL   |          |          |          |          |      |
| *o       |          |          |          |          |      |
| perating |          |          |          |          |      |
| band* is |          |          |          |          |      |
| reaching |          |          |          |          |      |
| beyond   |          |          |          |          |      |
| 12.75    |          |          |          |          |      |
| GHz.\    |          |          |          |          |      |
| For      |          |          |          |          |      |
| IAB-MT,  |          |          |          |          |      |
| this     |          |          |          |          |      |
| spurious |          |          |          |          |      |
| f        |          |          |          |          |      |
| requency |          |          |          |          |      |
| range    |          |          |          |          |      |
| applies  |          |          |          |          |      |
| only for |          |          |          |          |      |
| *o       |          |          |          |          |      |
| perating |          |          |          |          |      |
| bands*   |          |          |          |          |      |
| for      |          |          |          |          |      |
| which    |          |          |          |          |      |
| the      |          |          |          |          |      |
| 5^th^    |          |          |          |          |      |
| harmonic |          |          |          |          |      |
| of the   |          |          |          |          |      |
| upper    |          |          |          |          |      |
| f        |          |          |          |          |      |
| requency |          |          |          |          |      |
| edge of  |          |          |          |          |      |
| the UL   |          |          |          |          |      |
| *o       |          |          |          |          |      |
| perating |          |          |          |          |      |
| band* is |          |          |          |          |      |
| reaching |          |          |          |          |      |
| beyond   |          |          |          |          |      |
| 12.75    |          |          |          |          |      |
| GHz.     |          |          |          |          |      |
|          |          |          |          |          |      |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |      |
| For IAB  |          |          |          |          |      |
| node     |          |          |          |          |      |
| capable  |          |          |          |          |      |
| of       |          |          |          |          |      |
| mu       |          |          |          |          |      |
| lti-band |          |          |          |          |      |
| op       |          |          |          |          |      |
| eration, |          |          |          |          |      |
| the      |          |          |          |          |      |
| f        |          |          |          |          |      |
| requency |          |          |          |          |      |
| ranges   |          |          |          |          |      |
| relating |          |          |          |          |      |
| to the   |          |          |          |          |      |
| RF       |          |          |          |          |      |
| ba       |          |          |          |          |      |
| ndwidths |          |          |          |          |      |
| of all   |          |          |          |          |      |
| s        |          |          |          |          |      |
| upported |          |          |          |          |      |
| *o       |          |          |          |          |      |
| perating |          |          |          |          |      |
| bands*   |          |          |          |          |      |
| apply.   |          |          |          |          |      |
|          |          |          |          |          |      |
| NOTE 3:  |          |          |          |          |      |
| Δf~OBUE~ |          |          |          |          |      |
| is       |          |          |          |          |      |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |      |
| in       |          |          |          |          |      |
| clause   |          |          |          |          |      |
| 6.6.1 of |          |          |          |          |      |
| TS       |          |          |          |          |      |
| 38.174   |          |          |          |          |      |
| \[2\].   |          |          |          |          |      |
|          |          |          |          |          |      |
| NOTE 4:  |          |          |          |          |      |
| The      |          |          |          |          |      |
| field    |          |          |          |          |      |
| strength |          |          |          |          |      |
| meas     |          |          |          |          |      |
| urements |          |          |          |          |      |
| shall be |          |          |          |          |      |
| c        |          |          |          |          |      |
| onducted |          |          |          |          |      |
| on OATS  |          |          |          |          |      |
| or SAC   |          |          |          |          |      |
| for      |          |          |          |          |      |
| fre      |          |          |          |          |      |
| quencies |          |          |          |          |      |
| up to 1  |          |          |          |          |      |
| GHz, or  |          |          |          |          |      |
| on       |          |          |          |          |      |
| FSOATS   |          |          |          |          |      |
| or FAR   |          |          |          |          |      |
| for      |          |          |          |          |      |
| fre      |          |          |          |          |      |
| quencies |          |          |          |          |      |
| above 1  |          |          |          |          |      |
| GHz.     |          |          |          |          |      |
|          |          |          |          |          |      |
| NOTE 5:  |          |          |          |          |      |
| Limits   |          |          |          |          |      |
| for      |          |          |          |          |      |
| radiated |          |          |          |          |      |
| e        |          |          |          |          |      |
| missions |          |          |          |          |      |
| are      |          |          |          |          |      |
| tr       |          |          |          |          |      |
| anslated |          |          |          |          |      |
| from the |          |          |          |          |      |
| e.r.p.   |          |          |          |          |      |
| limit of |          |          |          |          |      |
| -36 dBm  |          |          |          |          |      |
| into the |          |          |          |          |      |
| field    |          |          |          |          |      |
| strength |          |          |          |          |      |
| limit of |          |          |          |          |      |
| 61.      |          |          |          |          |      |
| 4 dBµV/m |          |          |          |          |      |
| (at 3m)  |          |          |          |          |      |
| or 50.9  |          |          |          |          |      |
| dBµV/m   |          |          |          |          |      |
| (at      |          |          |          |          |      |
| 10m),    |          |          |          |          |      |
| and      |          |          |          |          |      |
| i        |          |          |          |          |      |
| ncreased |          |          |          |          |      |
| by the   |          |          |          |          |      |
| site     |          |          |          |          |      |
| gain     |          |          |          |          |      |
| value of |          |          |          |          |      |
| 4 dB.    |          |          |          |          |      |
| The      |          |          |          |          |      |
| value of |          |          |          |          |      |
| the site |          |          |          |          |      |
| gain is  |          |          |          |          |      |
| based on |          |          |          |          |      |
| ITU-R    |          |          |          |          |      |
| Recomme  |          |          |          |          |      |
| ndations |          |          |          |          |      |
| SM.329   |          |          |          |          |      |
| \[20\].  |          |          |          |          |      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+------+

#### 8.2.1.4 Interpretation of the measurement results

The interpretation of the results recorded in a test report for the
radiated emission measurements described in the present document shall
be as follows:

\- the measured value related to the corresponding limit will be used to
decide whether an equipment meets the requirements of the present
document;

\- the value of the measurement uncertainty for the measurement of each
parameter shall be included in the test report;

\- the recorded value of the measurement uncertainty shall be, for each
measurement, equal to or lower than the values in table 8.2.1.4-1 for
IAB node.

Table 8.2.1.4-1 specifies the maximum measurement uncertainty of the
test system. The test system shall enable the equipment under test to be
measured with an uncertainty not exceeding the specified values. All
tolerances and uncertainties are absolute values, and are valid for a
confidence level of 95 %, unless otherwise stated.

A confidence level of 95 % is the measurement uncertainty tolerance
interval for a specific measurement that contains 95% of the performance
of a population of test equipment.

Table 8.2.1.4-1: Maximum measurement uncertainty (IAB node)

  Parameter                                                                                                                              Uncertainty for EUT dimension ≤ 1 m   Uncertainty for EUT dimension \>1 m
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------- -------------------------------------
  Effective radiated RF power between 30 MHz to 180 MHz                                                                                  ±6 dB                                 ±6 dB
  Effective radiated RF power between 180 MHz to 4 GHz                                                                                   ±4 dB                                 ±6 dB
  Effective radiated RF power between 4 GHz to 12,75 GHz                                                                                 ±6 dB                                 ±9 dB (NOTE)
  Field strength between 30 MHz to 12,75 GHz                                                                                             ±6 dB                                 ±6 dB
  NOTE: This value may be reduced to ±6 dB when further information on the potential radiation characteristic of the EUT is available.                                         

NOTE: If the test system for a test is known to have a measurement
uncertainty greater than that specified in table 8.2.1.4-1, this
equipment can still be used, provided that an adjustment is made
follows:

Any additional uncertainty in the test system over and above that
specified in table 8.2.1.4-1 is used to tighten the test requirements -
making the test harder to pass.

This procedure will ensure that a test system not compliant with table
8.2.1.4-1 does not increase the probability of passing an EUT that would
otherwise have failed a test if a test system compliant with table
8.2.1.4-1 had been used.

### 8.2.2 Radiated emission, ancillary equipment

This test is only applicable to *ancillary equipment* not incorporated
in the radio equipment and intended to be measured on a stand-alone
basis, as declared by the manufacturer. This test shall be performed on
a representative configuration of the *ancillary equipment*.

This test is not applicable for *ancillary equipment* incorporated in
the radio equipment, or for *ancillary equipment* intended to be
measured in combination with the radio equipment. In these cases, the
requirements of the relevant product standard for the effective use of
the radio spectrum shall apply.

#### 8.2.2.1 Definition

This test assesses the ability of *ancillary equipment* to limit
unwanted emission from the *enclosure port*.

#### 8.2.2.2 Test method

The test method shall be in accordance with CISPR 32\[6\].

#### 8.2.2.3 Limits

The *ancillary equipment* shall meet the limits according to CISPR
32\[6\] table A.4 and table A.5.

For the referred limit values, the following shall apply:

Where the limits value varies over a given frequency range, it changes
linearly with respect to the logarithm of the frequency.

Where there is a step in the relevant limit, the lower value shall be
applied at the transition frequency.

Alternatively, for *ancillary equipment* intended to be used in
telecommunication centres only, the class A limits given in CISPR 32
\[6\], annex A, table A.2 and table A.3 may be used.

8.3 Conducted emission DC power input/output port
-------------------------------------------------

If the DC power cable of the radio equipment is intended to be less than
3 m in length, and intended only for direct connection to a dedicated AC
to DC power supply, then the measurement shall be performed only on the
AC power input of that power supply as specified in clause 8.4.

This test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
radio equipment, the associated *ancillary equipment*, or representative
configuration of the combination of radio and *ancillary equipment*.

### 8.3.1 Definition

This test assesses the ability of radio equipment and *ancillary
equipment* to limit internal noise from the DC power input/output
*port*s.

### 8.3.2 Test method

The test method shall be in accordance with CISPR 32 \[6\] and the
Artificial Mains Network (AMN) shall be connected to a DC power source.

In the case of DC output *port*s, the *port*s shall be connected via an
AMN to a load drawing the rated current of the source.

A measuring receiver shall be connected to each AMN measurement *port*
in turn and the conducted emission recorded.

The equipment shall be installed with a ground plane as defined in CISPR
32 \[6\]. The reference earth point of the AMN shall be connected to the
reference ground plane with a conductor as short as possible.

### 8.3.3 Limits

The equipment shall meet the limits according to CISPR 32 \[6\] table
A.9, which are defined for average detector receiver and for quasi-peak
detector receiver. If the average limit is met when using a quasi‑peak
detector, the equipment shall be deemed to meet both limits and
measurement with the average detector receiver is not necessary.

Where there is a step in the referred limit values, the lower value
shall be applied at the transition frequency.

8.4 Conducted emissions, AC mains power input/output port
---------------------------------------------------------

This test is applicable to equipment powered by the AC mains.

This test is not applicable to AC output *port*s which are connected
directly (or via a circuit breaker) to the AC power *port* of the EUT.

This test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
radio equipment, the associated *ancillary equipment*, or representative
configuration of the combination of radio and *ancillary equipment*.

### 8.4.1 Definition

This test assesses the ability of radio equipment and *ancillary
equipment* to limit internal noise from the AC mains power input/output
*port*s.

### 8.4.2 Test method

The test method shall be in accordance with CISPR 32 \[6\].

### 8.4.3 Limits

The equipment shall meet the limits according to CISPR 32 \[6\] table
A.10, which are defined for the average detector receiver and for
quasi-peak detector receiver. If the average limit is met when using a
quasi‑peak detector, the equipment shall be deemed to meet both limits
and measurement with the average detector receiver is not necessary.

For the referred limit values following shall apply:

Where the limits value varies over a given frequency range, it changes
linearly with respect to the logarithm of the frequency.

Where there is a step in the relevant limit, the lower value shall be
applied at the transition frequency.

Alternatively, for equipment intended to be used in telecommunication
centres the limits given in CISPR 32 \[6\] table A.9 shall be used.

8.5 Conducted emissions, telecommunication port
-----------------------------------------------

This test is applicable for radio equipment and/or *ancillary equipment*
for fixed use which have *telecommunication ports*.

This test shall be performed on a representative configuration of radio
equipment, the associated *ancillary equipment*, or a representative
configuration of the combination of radio and *ancillary equipment*.

### 8.5.1 Definition

This test assesses the EUT unwanted emission present at the
*telecommunication ports*.

### 8.5.2 Test method

The test method shall be in accordance with CISPR 32 \[6\].

### 8.5.3 Limits

The *telecommunication po*rts shall meet the limits according to CISPR
32 \[6\] table A.12.

For the referred limit values, following shall apply:

Where the limits value varies over a given frequency range, it changes
linearly with respect to the logarithm of the frequency.

Where there is a step in the relevant limit, the lower value shall be
applied at the transition frequency.

Alternatively, for equipment intended to be used in telecommunication
centres only, the limits given in CISPR 32 \[6\] table A.11 may be used.

8.6 Harmonic Current emissions (AC mains input port)
----------------------------------------------------

The requirements of IEC 61000-3-2 \[8\] for harmonic current emission
apply for equipment covered by the scope of the present document. For
equipment with an input current of greater than 16A per phase, IEC
61000-3-12 \[9\] applies.

8.7 Voltage fluctuations and flicker (AC mains input port)
----------------------------------------------------------

The requirements of IEC 61000-3-3 \[10\] for voltage fluctuations and
flicker apply for equipment covered by the scope of the present
document. For equipment with an input current of greater than 16 A per
phase, IEC 61000-3-11 \[11\] applies.

9 Immunity
==========

9.1 Test configurations
-----------------------

This clause defines the configurations for immunity tests as follows:

\- the equipment shall be tested under normal test conditions as
specified in the functional standards;

\- during the test, the RF output power may be reduced to a power level
sufficient for establishing and maintaining the required communication
link;

\- the test configuration shall be as close to normal intended use as
possible;

\- if the equipment is part of a system, or can be connected to
*ancillary equipment*, then it shall be acceptable to test the equipment
while connected to the minimum configuration of *ancillary equipment*
necessary to exercise the *port*s;

\- if the equipment has a large number of *port*s, then a sufficient
number shall be selected to simulate actual operation conditions and to
ensure that all the different types of termination are tested;

\- the test conditions, test configuration and mode of operation shall
be recorded in the test report;

\- *port*s which in normal operation are connected shall be connected to
an *ancillary equipment* or to a representative piece of cable correctly
terminated to simulate the input/output characteristics of the
*ancillary equipment*. In case of *IAB type 1-H*, *antenna ports* shall
be correctly terminated;

\- *port*s which are not connected to cables during normal operation,
e.g. service connectors, programming connectors, temporary connectors
etc. shall not be connected to any cables for the purpose of EMC
testing. Where cables have to be connected to these *port*s, or
interconnecting cables have to be extended in length in order to
exercise the EUT, precautions shall be taken to ensure that the
evaluation of the EUT is not affected by the addition or extension of
these cables;

\- immunity tests on the entire IAB Node shall be performed by
establishing communication links at the radio interface (e.g. with the
mobile simulator) and the NG interface (e.g. with an NGC simulator) and
evaluating the throughput;

\- immunity tests shall be performed on both the uplink and downlink
paths. The tests shall also include both the radio interface and the NG
interface. Throughput evaluation may be carried out at either interface,
where appropriate, and the measurements for the uplink and downlink
paths may be carried out as a single path looped at either the radio
interface or NG interface. In case of looping is used care have to be
taken that the throughput information doesn\'t change due to looping;

\- for IAB node capable of multi-band operation, communication links
shall be established in such a way that all *operating band*(s) are
activated during the test according to the applicable test
configurations in clause 4.5. Performance assessment may be done
separately for each *operating band*.

9.2 RF electromagnetic field (80 MHz - 6000 MHz)
------------------------------------------------

The test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
equipment, the associated ancillary equipment, or representative
configuration of the combination of radio and ancillary equipment.

### 9.2.1 Definition

This test assesses the ability of radio equipment and *ancillary
equipment* to operate as intended in the presence of a radio frequency
electromagnetic field disturbance at the enclosure.

### 9.2.2 Test method and level

The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000‑4‑3 \[13\], which
specifies test methodology based on anechoic chamber. The use of
reverberation chamber test method according to IEC 61000-4-21 \[18\],
clause 6.1 and Annex D as alternative method is allowed.

The following requirements shall apply:

\- The test level shall be 3 V/m amplitude modulated to a depth of 80 %
by a sinusoidal audio signal of 1 kHz;

\- The stepped frequency increments shall be 1 % of the momentary
frequency;

\- The test shall be performed over the frequency range 80 MHz - 6000
MHz; with the exception of the exclusion band for receivers (see clause
4.4);

\- Responses in stand-alone receivers or receivers which are part of
transceivers occurring at discrete frequencies which are narrow band
responses, shall be disregarded, see clause 4.3;

\- The frequencies selected during the test shall be recorded in the
test report.

\- For the test method in accordance with IEC 61000-4-3\[13\], the
*spatial exclusion zone* can be chosen to protect the IAB node
receiver(s). For the frequency range above 690 MHz (according to ETSI EN
301 489-50 \[28\]), the EMC RF electromagnetic field immunity
requirement with a level of 10 V/m applies on the non-radiating faces of
the *IAB type 1-O*, or *IAB type 2-O,* as depicted on figures 9.2.2-1.

NOTE: Depending on the IAB implementation, application of the spatial
exclusion to all radiating faces of the IAB may not allow proper
execution of the RI testing. In such cases as depicted on figures
9.2.2‑2, to protect the IAB node receiver(s), exclusion bands shall be
considered, as in table 4.4.1-1.

![图片1](media/image5.png){width="4.78125in"
height="3.7083333333333335in"}

Figure 9.2.2-1: Example of the spatial exclusion application in case of
a single instance of the IAB radiating face (horizontal plane depicted)

![](media/image6.jpeg){width="6.695138888888889in" height="5.73125in"}

Figure 9.2.2-2: Example of the spatial exclusion application in case of
a 3-panel IAB node (horizontal plane depicted) -- proper execution of
the RI test may not be feasible

### 9.2.3 Performance criteria

**IAB node:**

The performance criteria of clause 6.1 shall apply.

**Ancillary equipment:**

The performance criteria of clause 6.3 shall apply.

9.3 Electrostatic discharge
---------------------------

The test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
radio equipment, the associated *ancillary equipment*, or representative
configuration of the combination of radio and *ancillary equipment*.

### 9.3.1 Definition

This test assesses the ability of radio equipment and *ancillary
equipment* to operate as intended in the event of an electrostatic
discharge.

### 9.3.2 Test method and level

The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000‑4‑2 \[12\]:

\- for contact discharge, the equipment shall pass at ±4 kV;

\- for air discharge shall pass at ±8 kV;

\- electrostatic discharge shall be applied to all exposed surfaces of
the EUT except where the user documentation specially indicates a
requirement for appropriate protective measures.

> NOTE: Ensure that the EUT is fully discharged between each ESD
> exposure.

### 9.3.3 Performance criteria

**IAB node:**

The performance criteria of clause 6.2 shall apply.

**Ancillary equipment:**

The performance criteria of clause 6.4 shall apply.

9.4 Fast transients common mode
-------------------------------

The test shall be performed on AC mains power input *port*s.

This test shall be performed on *signal ports*, *telecommunication
ports*, *control ports* and DC power input/output *ports* if the cables
may be longer than 3 m.

Where this test is not carried out on a *port* or any other *port*s
because the manufacturer declares that it is not intended to be used
with cables longer than 3 m, a list of *port*s which were not tested for
this reason shall be included in the test report.

This test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
equipment, the associated *ancillary equipment*, or representative
configuration of the combination of radio and *ancillary equipment*.

### 9.4.1 Definition

This test assesses the ability of radio equipment and *ancillary
equipment* to operate as intended in the event of fast transients
present on one of the input/output *port*s.

### 9.4.2 Test method and level

The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000‑4‑4 \[14\]:

\- The test level for *signal ports*, *telecommunication ports* and
*control ports* shall be 0.5 kV open circuit voltage as given in
IEC 61000‑4‑4 \[14\];

\- The test level for DC power input/output *port*s shall be 0.5 kV open
circuit voltage as given in IEC 61000‑4‑4 \[14\];

\- The test level for AC mains power input *port*s shall be 1 kV open
circuit voltage as given in IEC 61000‑4‑4 \[14\].

For AC and DC power input *port*s the transients shall be applied (in
parallel) to all the conductors in the cable with reference to the
cabinet reference earth (true common mode) and the source impedance
shall be 50 Ω.

### 9.4.3 Performance criteria

**IAB node:**

The performance criteria of clause 6.2 shall apply.

**Ancillary equipment:**

The performance criteria of clause 6.4 shall apply.

9.5 RF common mode (0.15 MHz - 80 MHz)
--------------------------------------

The test shall be performed on AC mains power input/output *port*s.

This test shall be performed on *signal ports*, telecommunication
*port*s, control and DC power input/output *port*s, which may have
cables longer than 3 m.

Where this test is not carried out on a *port* or any other *port*s
because the manufacturer declares that it is not intended to be used
with cables longer than stated above, a list of *port*s which were not
tested shall be included in the test report.

This test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
equipment, the associated *ancillary equipment*, or representative
configuration of the combination of radio and *ancillary equipment*.

NOTE: This test can also be performed using the clamp injection method,
where appropriate, see IEC 61000‑4‑6 \[16\].

### 9.5.1 Definition

This test assesses the ability of radio equipment and *ancillary
equipment* to operate as intended in the presence of a radio frequency
electromagnetic disturbance.

### 9.5.2 Test method and level

The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000‑4‑6 \[16\]:

\- The test signal shall be amplitude modulated to a depth of 80 % by a
sinusoidal audio signal of 1 kHz;

\- The stepped frequency increments shall be 50 kHz in the frequency
range 150 kHz to 5 MHz and 1% frequency increment of the momentary
frequency in the frequency range 5 MHz to 80 MHz;

\- The test level shall be severity level 2 as given in
IEC 61000‑4‑6 \[16\] corresponding to 3 V rms, at a transfer impedance
of 150 Ω;

\- The test shall be performed over the frequency range 150 kHz -
80 MHz;

\- The injection method to be used shall be selected according to the
basic standard IEC 61000-4-6 \[16\];

\- Responses of stand-alone receivers or receivers which are part of
transceivers occurring at discrete frequencies which are narrow band
responses, shall be disregarded, see clause 4.3;

\- The frequencies of the immunity test signal selected and used during
the test shall be recorded in the test report.

### 9.5.3 Performance criteria

**IAB node:**

The performance criteria of clause 6.1 shall apply.

**Ancillary equipment:**

The performance criteria of clause 6.3 shall apply.

9.6 Voltage dips and interruptions
----------------------------------

The tests shall be performed on AC mains power input *port*s.

These tests shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
equipment, the associated *ancillary equipment*, or representative
configuration of the combination of radio and *ancillary equipment*.

### 9.6.1 Definition

These tests assess the ability of radio equipment and *ancillary
equipment* to operate as intended in the event of voltage dips and
interruptions present on the AC mains power input *port*s.

### 9.6.2 Test method and level

The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000‑4‑11 \[17\], where
the test levels shall be:

\- Voltage dip: 0 % residual voltage for 0.5 cycle;

\- Voltage dip: 0 % residual voltage for 1 cycle;

\- Voltage dip: 70 % residual voltage for 25/30 cycles (at 50/60 Hz);

\- Voltage interruption: 0 % residual voltage for 250/300 cycles (at
50/60 Hz).

### 9.6.3 Performance criteria

For a 0 % residual voltage dip test, the performance criteria for
transient phenomena shall be applied:

\- Criteria 6.2 for IAB node

\- Criteria 6.4 for *ancillary equipment*

For a 70% residual voltage dip test and for voltage interruption test,
the following applies:

1\. In the case where the equipment is fitted with or connected to a
battery back-up, the following performance criteria shall be applied:

\- Criteria 6.2 for IAB node

\- Criteria 6.4 for *ancillary equipment*

2\. In the case where the equipment is powered solely from the AC mains
supply (without the use of a parallel battery back-up) volatile user
data may have been lost and if applicable the communication link need
not to be maintained and lost functions should be recoverable by user or
operator:

\- No unintentional responses shall occur at the end of the test, when
the voltage is restored to nominal

\- In the event of loss of communications link or in the event of loss
of user data, this fact shall be recorded in the test report

9.7 Surges, common and differential mode
----------------------------------------

The tests shall be performed on AC mains power input *port*s.

This test shall be additionally performed on *telecommunication port*s.

These tests shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
equipment, the associated *ancillary equipment*, or representative
configuration of the combination of radio and *ancillary equipment*.

### 9.7.1 Definition

These tests assess the ability of radio equipment and *ancillary
equipment* to operate as intended in the event of surges being present
at the AC mains power input *port*s and *telecommunication ports*.

### 9.7.2 Test method and level

The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000-4-5 \[15\].

The requirements and evaluation of test results given in clause 9.7.2.1
(t*elecommunication port*s, outdoor cables), clause 9.7.2.2
(*telecommunication ports*, indoor cables) and clause 9.7.2.3 (AC power
ports) shall apply, but no test shall be required where normal
functioning cannot be achieved, because of the impact of the CDN on the
EUT.

#### 9.7.2.1 Test method for telecommunication ports directly connected to outdoor cables

The test level for t*elecommunications port*s, intended to be directly
connected to the telecommunications network via outdoor cables, shall be
1 kV line to ground as given in IEC 61000-4-5 \[15\]. In this case the
total output impedance of the surge generator shall be in accordance
with the basic standard IEC 61000-4-5 \[15\].

The test generator shall provide the 1.2/50 μs pulse as defined in IEC
61000-4-5 \[15\].

#### 9.7.2.2 Test method for telecommunication ports connected to indoor cables

The test level for telecommunication *port*s, intended to be connected
to indoor cables (longer than 10 m) shall be 0.5 kV line to ground. In
this case the total output impedance of the surge generator shall be in
accordance with the basic standard IEC 61000-4-5 \[15\].

The test generator shall provide the 1.2/50 μs pulse as defined in IEC
61000-4-5 \[15\].

#### 9.7.2.3 Test method for AC power ports

The test level for AC power input *port*s shall be 2 kV line to ground,
and 1 kV line to line, with the output impedance of the surge generator
as given in IEC 61000-4-5 \[15\].

In telecommunication centres 1 kV line to ground and 0.5 kV line to line
shall be used.

The test generator shall provide the 1.2/50 μs pulse as defined in IEC
61000-4-5 \[15\].

### 9.7.3 Performance criteria

**IAB node:**

The performance criteria of clause 6.2 shall apply.

**Ancillary equipment:**

The performance criteria of clause 6.4 shall apply.

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **C   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hange |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hist  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ory** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| **D   | *     | **T   | *     | **    | **    | **Su  | **New |
| ate** | *Meet | Doc** | *CR** | Rev** | Cat** | bject | vers  |
|       | ing** |       |       |       |       | /Comm | ion** |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ent** |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN\  | **R   |       |       |       | Ca    | 1.0.0 |
| 20-09 | #89-e | P-201 |       |       |       | pture |       |
|       |       | 714** |       |       |       | con   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tribu |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | app   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | roved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AN4\# |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 96-e: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-20 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 12636 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TPs   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to TS |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IAB   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EMC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (S    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cope) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-20 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 12639 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ,     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | D     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | efini |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | imm   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | unity |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IAB   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EMC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4-201 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2640, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IAB   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EMC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | spec  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ifica |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Excl  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | usion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bands |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (4.4) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4-201 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2641, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IAB   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EMC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | spec  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ifica |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Emi   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (7.1) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4-201 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2642, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Emi   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IAB   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EMC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4-201 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2643, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Refer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ences |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IAB   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EMC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4-201 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2638, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TPs   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to TS |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IAB   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EMC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 9     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (Immu |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nity) |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | **R   |       |       |       | App   | 1     |
| 20-09 | N\#89 | P-202 |       |       |       | roved | 6.0.0 |
|       |       | 108** |       |       |       | by    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pl    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | enary |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | --    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | el-16 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | spec  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | under |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | hange |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ntrol |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0001  |       | F     | CR to | 1     |
| 20-12 | N\#90 | 02504 |       |       |       | TS    | 6.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 38    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .175: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IAB   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | defin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ition |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0002  | 1     | F     | CR to | 1     |
| 20-12 | N\#90 | 02504 |       |       |       | TS    | 6.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 38    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .175: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Rad   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | iated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | emis  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sion, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IAB   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0003  | 1     | F     | CR to | 1     |
| 20-12 | N\#90 | 02504 |       |       |       | TS    | 6.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8.175 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Vo    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ltage |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dips  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | inte  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rrupt |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ions, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lease |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 16    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0007  | 1     | B     | CR to | 1     |
| 20-12 | N\#90 | 02420 |       |       |       | TS    | 6.1.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8.175 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IAB   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EMC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | p     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | erfor |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mance |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | quire |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0014  | 1     | F     | CR to | 1     |
| 21-06 | N\#92 | 11101 |       |       |       | TS    | 6.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 38    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .175: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Rad   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | iated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | emis  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sion, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | anci  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | llary |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | equi  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pment |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0015  | 1     | B     | CR on | 1     |
| 21-06 | N\#92 | 11101 |       |       |       | excl  | 6.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | usion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bands |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sp    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | atial |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | excl  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | usion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IAB   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EMC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Rad   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | iated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Imm   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | unity |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | te    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sting |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0016  |       | B     | Draft | 1     |
| 21-06 | N\#92 | 11101 |       |       |       | CR to | 6.2.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 38    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .175: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IAB   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | EMC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | test  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | conf  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | igura |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | p     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | erfor |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mance |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | quire |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (upd  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ated) |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0018  |       | F     | Big   | 1     |
| 21-09 | N\#93 | 11892 |       |       |       | CR    | 6.3.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8.175 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | M     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ainte |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nance |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (Re   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | l-16, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CAT   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | F)    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0021  |       | F     | Big   | 1     |
| 22-09 | N\#97 | 22024 |       |       |       | CR    | 6.4.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8.175 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | M     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ainte |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nance |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (Re   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | l-16, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CAT   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | F)    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0023  |       | F     | CR to | 1     |
| 23-03 | N\#99 | 30502 |       |       |       | TS    | 6.5.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8.175 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IAB   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lause |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4.1,  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5.2,  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 6.1,  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 6.2   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R16   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RA    | RP-2  | 0027  |       | F     | TS    | 1     |
| 23-03 | N\#99 | 30515 |       |       |       | 38    | 6.5.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .175: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lause |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Scope |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lause |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 9     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Imm   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | unity |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN   | RP-2  | 0031  | 1     | F     | \[NR  | 1     |
| 23-09 | \#101 | 32502 |       |       |       | \_new | 6.6.0 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAT-C |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ore\] |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CR on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8.175 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IAB   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | refe  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rence |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | m     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ainte |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nance |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R16   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
