3GPP TS 38.304 V16.10.0 (2023-06)

Technical Specification

3rd Generation Partnership Project;

Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;

NR;

User Equipment (UE) procedures in Idle mode and RRC Inactive state

(Release 16)

The present document has been developed within the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP ^TM^) and may be further elaborated for the
purposes of 3GPP.\
The present document has not been subject to any approval process by the
3GPP Organizational Partners and shall not be implemented.\
This Specification is provided for future development work within 3GPP
only. The Organizational Partners accept no liability for any use of
this Specification.\
Specifications and Reports for implementation of the 3GPP ^TM^ system
should be obtained via the 3GPP Organizational Partners\' Publications
Offices.

> ***3GPP***
>
> Postal address
>
> 3GPP support office address
>
> 650 Route des Lucioles - Sophia Antipolis
>
> Valbonne - FRANCE
>
> Tel.: +33 4 92 94 42 00 Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16
>
> Internet
>
> http://www.3gpp.org

***Copyright Notification***

No part may be reproduced except as authorized by written permission.\
The copyright and the foregoing restriction extend to reproduction in
all media.

© 2023, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI,
TTA, TTC).

All rights reserved.

UMTS™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its members

3GPP™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners\
LTE™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners

GSM® and the GSM logo are registered and owned by the GSM Association

 Contents {#contents .TT}
========

Foreword 5

1 Scope 6

2 References 6

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 7

3.1 Definitions 7

3.2 Abbreviations 8

4 General description of RRC\_IDLE state and RRC\_INACTIVE state 9

4.1 Overview 9

4.2 Functional division between AS and NAS in RRC\_IDLE state and
RRC\_INACTIVE state 11

4.3 Service types in RRC\_IDLE state 13

4.4 Service types in RRC\_INACTIVE state 14

4.5 Cell Categories 14

5 Process and procedure descriptions 15

5.1 PLMN selection and SNPN selection 15

5.1.1 Support for PLMN selection 15

5.1.1.1 General 15

5.1.1.2 NR case 15

5.1.1.3 E-UTRA case 16

5.1.2 Support for SNPN selection 16

5.1.2.1 General 16

5.1.2.2 NR case 16

5.2 Cell selection and reselection 16

5.2.1 Introduction 16

5.2.2 States and state transitions in RRC\_IDLE state and RRC\_INACTIVE
state 17

5.2.3 Cell Selection process 18

5.2.3.1 Description 18

5.2.3.2 Cell Selection Criterion 19

5.2.3.3 E-UTRAN case in Cell Selection 20

5.2.4 Cell Reselection evaluation process 20

5.2.4.1 Reselection priorities handling 20

5.2.4.2 Measurement rules for cell re-selection 22

5.2.4.3 Mobility states of a UE 22

5.2.4.3.0 Introduction 22

5.2.4.3.1 Scaling rules 23

5.2.4.4 Cells with cell reservations, access restrictions or unsuitable
for normal camping 23

5.2.4.5 NR Inter-frequency and inter-RAT Cell Reselection criteria 24

5.2.4.6 Intra-frequency and equal priority inter-frequency Cell
Reselection criteria 25

5.2.4.7 Cell reselection parameters in system information broadcasts 25

5.2.4.7.0 General reselection parameters 25

5.2.4.7.1 Speed dependent reselection parameters 27

5.2.4.8 Inter-RAT Cell reselection in RRC\_INACTIVE state 28

5.2.4.9 Relaxed measurement 28

5.2.4.9.0 Relaxed measurement rules 28

5.2.4.9.1 Relaxed measurement criterion for UE with low mobility 29

5.2.4.9.2 Relaxed measurement criterion for UE not at cell edge 29

5.2.4.10 Cell reselection with CAG cells 30

5.2.5 Camped Normally state 30

5.2.6 Selection of cell at transition to RRC\_IDLE or RRC\_INACTIVE
state 30

5.2.7 Any Cell Selection state 30

5.2.8 Camped on Any Cell state 30

5.3 Cell Reservations and Access Restrictions 31

5.3.0 Introduction 31

5.3.1 Cell status and cell reservations 31

5.3.2 Unified access control 33

5.4 Tracking Area registration 33

5.5 RAN Area registration 33

6 Reception of broadcast information 33

6.1 Reception of system information 33

7 Paging 34

7.1 Discontinuous Reception for paging 34

8 Sidelink Operation 35

8.1 NR sidelink communication and V2X sidelink communication 35

8.2 Cell selection and reselection for Sidelink 35

8.2.1 Parameters used for cell selection and reselection triggered for
sidelink 36

Annex A (informative): Change history 37

 Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

 1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the Access Stratum (AS) part of the UE
procedures in RRC\_IDLE state (also called Idle mode) and RRC\_INACTIVE
state. The non-access stratum (NAS) part of Idle mode procedures and
processes is specified in TS 23.122 \[9\].

The present document specifies the model for the functional division
between the NAS and AS in a UE.

The present document applies to all UEs that support at least NR Radio
Access, including multi-RAT UEs as described in 3GPP specifications, in
the following cases:

\- When the UE is camped on a NR cell;

\- When the UE is searching for a cell to camp on;

NOTE: When the UE is camped on or searching for a cell to camp on
belonging to other RATs, the UE behaviour is described in the
specifications of the other RATs.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR Overall Description; Stage 2\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC) - Protocol
Specification\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 38.213: \"NR; Physical layer procedures for control \".

\[5\] Void

\[6\] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"E-UTRA; Radio Resource Control (RRC) - Protocol
Specification\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 36.304: \"E-UTRA; User Equipment (UE) procedures in
RRC\_IDLE state \".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 38.133: \"NR; Requirements for Support of Radio Resource
Management\".

\[9\] 3GPP TS 23.122: \"NAS functions related to Mobile Station (MS) in
RRC\_IDLE state\".

\[10\] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage
2\".

\[11\] 3GPP TS 38.215: \"NR; Physical layer measurements\".

\[12\] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system\".

\[13\] 3GPP TS 24.890: \"5G System -- Phase 1; CT WG1 Aspects\".

\[14\] 3GPP TS 24.501: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for 5G System
(5GS); Stage 3\".

\[15\] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission
and reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\".

\[16\] 3GPP TS 23.287: \"Architecture enhancements for 5G System (5GS)
to support Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) services\".

\[17\] 3GPP TS 23.285: \"Technical Specification Group Services and
System Aspects; Architecture enhancements for V2X services\".

\[18\] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and
definitions apply:

**Acceptable Cell:** A cell that satisfies certain conditions as
specified in 4.5.

**Allowed CAG list: A per-PLMN list of CAG Identifiers the UE is allowed
to access (see TS 23.501 \[10\]).**

**Available PLMN(s):** One or more PLMN(s) for which the UE has found at
least one cell and read its PLMN identity(ies).

**Available SNPN(s):** One or more SNPN(s) for which the UE has found at
least one cell and read its SNPN identity(ies).

**Barred Cell**: A cell a UE is not allowed to camp on.

**CAG cell**: A cell broadcasting at least one Closed Access Group
Identifier.

**Camped on a cell:** UE has completed the cell selection/reselection
process and has chosen a cell. The UE monitors system information and
(in most cases) paging information.

**Camped on any cell**: UE is in idle mode and has completed the cell
selection/reselection process and has chosen a cell irrespective of PLMN
identity.

**Closed Access Group Identifier**: Identifier of a CAG within a PLMN.

**Commercial Mobile Alert System:** Public Warning System that delivers
*Warning Notifications* provided by *Warning Notification Providers* to
CMAS capable UEs.

**eCall Only Mode:** A UE configuration option that allows the UE to
register at 5GC and register in IMS to perform only eCall Over IMS, and
a non-emergency IMS call for test and/or terminal reconfiguration
services.

**EHPLMN: Any of the PLMN entries contained in the Equivalent HPLMN list
TS 23.122 \[9\].**

**Equivalent PLMN list: List of PLMNs considered as equivalent by the UE
for cell selection, cell reselection, and handover according to the
information provided by the NAS.**

**Home PLMN:** A PLMN where the Mobile Country Code (MCC) and Mobile
Network Code (MNC) of the PLMN identity are the same as the MCC and MNC
of the IMSI.

**Network Identifier**: Identifier of an SNPN in combination with a PLMN
ID (TS 23.501 \[10\]).

**Non-Public Network:** A network deployed for non-public use, as
defined in TS 22.261 \[12\]**.**

**NR sidelink communication**: AS functionality enabling at least V2X
Communication as defined in TS 23.287 \[16\], between two or more nearby
UEs, using NR technology but not traversing any network node.

**Process:** A local action in the UE invoked by an RRC procedure or an
RRC\_IDLE or RRC\_INACTIVE state procedure.

**Radio Access Technology:** Type of technology used for radio access,
for instance NR or E-UTRA.

**Registration Area**: (NAS) registration area is an area in which the
UE may roam without a need to perform location registration, which is a
NAS procedure.

**Registered PLMN:** This is the PLMN on which certain Location
Registration outcomes have occurred, as specified in TS 23.122 \[9\].

**Registered SNPN**: This is the SNPN on which certain Location
Registration outcomes have occurred, as specified in TS 23.122 \[9\].

**Reserved Cell**: A cell on which camping is not allowed, except for
particular UEs, if so indicated in the system information.

**Selected PLMN:** This is the PLMN that has been selected by the NAS,
either manually or automatically.

**Selected SNPN**: This is the SNPN that has been selected by the NAS,
either manually or automatically.

**Serving cell:** The cell on which the UE is camped.

**Sidelink:** UE to UE interface for V2X sidelink communication defined
in TS 23.287\[16\].

**SNPN Access Mode: Mode of operation wherein UE only selects SNPNs (as
defined in** TS 23.501 \[10\])**.**

**SNPN identity: An identifier of an SNPN comprising of** a PLMN ID and
an NID combination.

**Strongest cell:** The cell on a particular frequency that is
considered strongest according to the layer 1 cell search procedure (TS
38.213 \[4\], TS 38.215 \[11\]).

**Suitable Cell:** This is a cell on which a UE may camp. For NR cell,
the criteria are defined in clause 4.5, for E-UTRA cell in TS 36.304
\[7\].

**V2X sidelink communication**: AS functionality enabling V2X
Communication as defined in TS 23.285 \[17\], between nearby UEs, using
E-UTRA technology but not traversing any network node.

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

AS Access Stratum

CAG Closed Access Group

CAG-ID Closed Access Group Identifier

CMAS Commercial Mobile Alert System

CN Core Network

DCI Downlink Control Information

ETWS Earthquake and Tsunami Warning System

E-UTRA Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access

E-UTRAN Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network

HRNN Human-Readable Network Name

IAB Integrated Access and Backhaul

IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identity

MCC Mobile Country Code

MICO Mobile Initiated Connection Only

NAS Non-Access Stratum

NID Network Identifier

NPN Non-Public Network

NR NR Radio Access

PLMN Public Land Mobile Network

RAT Radio Access Technology

RNA RAN-based Notification Area

RNAU RAN-based Notification Area Update

RRC Radio Resource Control

SNPN Stand-alone Non-Public Network

UAC Unified Access Control

UE User Equipment

UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System

> V2X Vehicle to Everything

4 General description of RRC\_IDLE state and RRC\_INACTIVE state
================================================================

4.1 Overview
------------

The RRC\_IDLE state and RRC\_INACTIVE state tasks can be subdivided into
three processes:

\- PLMN selection (for UE not operating in SNPN access mode) or SNPN
selection (for UE operating in SNPN access mode);

\- Cell selection and reselection;

\- Location registration and RNA update.

PLMN selection, SNPN selection, cell reselection procedures, and
location registration are common for both RRC\_IDLE state and
RRC\_INACTIVE state. RNA update is only applicable for RRC\_INACTIVE
state. When UE selects a new PLMN or SNPN, UE transitions from
RRC\_INACTIVE to RRC\_IDLE, as specified in TS 24.501 \[14\].

When a UE is switched on, a public land mobile network (PLMN) or a SNPN
is selected by NAS. For the selected PLMN/SNPN, associated RAT(s) may be
set, as specified in TS 23.122 \[9\]. The NAS shall provide a list of
equivalent PLMNs, if available, that the AS shall use for cell selection
and cell reselection.

With cell selection, the UE searches for a suitable cell of the selected
PLMN or selected SNPN, chooses that cell to provide available services,
and monitors its control channel. This procedure is defined as \"camping
on the cell\".

The UE shall, if necessary, then register its presence, by means of a
NAS registration procedure, in the tracking area of the chosen cell. As
an outcome of a successful Location Registration, the selected PLMN/SNPN
then becomes the registered PLMN/SNPN, as specified in TS 23.122 \[9\].

If the UE finds a more suitable cell, according to the cell reselection
criteria, it reselects onto that cell and camps on it. If the new cell
does not belong to at least one tracking area to which the UE is
registered, location registration is performed. In RRC\_INACTIVE state,
if the new cell does not belong to the configured RNA, an RNA update
procedure is performed.

If necessary, the UE shall search for higher priority PLMNs at regular
time intervals as described in TS 23.122 \[9\] and search for a suitable
cell if another PLMN has been selected by NAS.

For UE not operating in SNPN access mode, search of available CAGs may
be triggered by NAS to support manual CAG selection. The AS shall report
available CAG-ID(s) together with their HRNN (if broadcast) and PLMN(s)
to the NAS.

If the UE loses coverage of the registered PLMN/SNPN, either a new
PLMN/SNPN is selected automatically (automatic mode), or an indication
of available PLMNs/SNPNs is given to the user so that a manual selection
can be performed (manual mode). As part of manual SNPN selection, the AS
shall report available SNPN identifiers together with their HRNN (if
broadcast) to the NAS.

Registration is not performed by UEs only capable of services that need
no registration.

The UE may perform NR sidelink communication and/or V2X sidelink
communication while in-coverage or out-of-coverage for sidelink, as
specified in clause 8.

The purpose of camping on a cell in RRC\_IDLE state and RRC\_INACTIVE
state is fourfold:

a\) It enables the UE to receive system information from the PLMN or the
SNPN.

b\) When registered and if the UE wishes to establish an RRC connection
or resume a suspended RRC connection, it can do this by initially
accessing the network on the control channel of the cell on which it is
camped.

c\) If the network needs to send a message or deliver data to the
registered UE, it knows (in most cases) the set of tracking areas (in
RRC\_IDLE state) or RNA (in RRC\_INACTIVE state) in which the UE is
camped. It can then send a \"paging\" message for the UE on the control
channels of all the cells in the corresponding set of areas. The UE will
then receive the paging message and can respond.

d\) It enables the UE to receive ETWS and CMAS notifications.

When the UE is in RRC\_IDLE state, upper layers may deactivate AS layer
when MICO mode is activated as specified in TS 24.501 \[14\]. When MICO
mode is activated, the AS configuration (e.g. priorities provided by
dedicated signalling) is kept and all running timers continue to run but
the UE need not perform any idle mode tasks. If a timer expires while
MICO mode is activated it is up to the UE implementation whether it
performs the corresponding action immediately or the latest when MICO
mode is deactivated. When MICO mode is deactivated, the UE shall perform
all idle mode tasks.

4.2 Functional division between AS and NAS in RRC\_IDLE state and RRC\_INACTIVE state
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 4.2-1 presents the functional division between UE non-access
stratum (NAS) and UE access stratum (AS) in RRC\_IDLE state and
RRC\_INACTIVE states. The NAS part is specified in TS 23.122 \[9\] and
the AS part in the present document.

Table 4.2-1: Functional division between AS and NAS in RRC\_IDLE state
and RRC\_INACTIVE state

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| RRC\_IDLE and        | UE Non-Access        | UE Access Stratum    |
| RRC\_INACTIVE state  | Stratum              |                      |
| Process              |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| PLMN Selection       | **For a UE not       | For a UE not         |
|                      | operating in SNPN    | operating in SNPN    |
|                      | access mode, perform | access mode, search  |
|                      | the following:**     | for available PLMNs. |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | > Maintain a list of | If associated RAT(s) |
|                      | > PLMNs in priority  | is (are) set for the |
|                      | > order according to | PLMN, search in this |
|                      | > TS 23.122 \[9\].   | (these) RAT(s) and   |
|                      | > Select a PLMN      | other RAT(s) for     |
|                      | > using automatic or | that PLMN as         |
|                      | > manual mode as     | specified in TS      |
|                      | > specified in TS    | 23.122 \[9\].        |
|                      | > 23.122 \[9\] and   |                      |
|                      | > request AS to      | For a UE operating   |
|                      | > select a cell      | in SNPN access mode, |
|                      | > belonging to this  | search for available |
|                      | > PLMN. For each     | SNPNs only consider  |
|                      | > PLMN, associated   | NR cells.            |
|                      | > RAT(s) may be set. |                      |
|                      | >                    | Perform measurements |
|                      | > Evaluate reports   | to support PLMN/SNPN |
|                      | > of available PLMNs | selection.           |
|                      | > and any associated |                      |
|                      | > CAG-IDs from AS    | Synchronise to a     |
|                      | > for PLMN           | broadcast channel to |
|                      | > selection.         | identify found       |
|                      | >                    | PLMNs/SNPNs.         |
|                      | > Maintain a list of |                      |
|                      | > equivalent PLMN    | Report available     |
|                      | > identities.        | PLMNs and any        |
|                      | >                    | associated CAG-IDs   |
|                      | > To support manual  | with associated      |
|                      | > CAG selection,     | RAT(s) to NAS on     |
|                      | > provide request to | request from NAS or  |
|                      | > search for         | autonomously.        |
|                      | > available CAGs and |                      |
|                      | > evaluate reports   | For a UE operating   |
|                      | > of available CAGs  | in SNPN access mode, |
|                      | > from AS for CAG    | report available     |
|                      | > selection.         | SNPNs to NAS         |
|                      |                      | autonomously.        |
|                      | **For a UE operating |                      |
|                      | in SNPN access mode, | **To support manual  |
|                      | perform the          | CAG selection,       |
|                      | following:**         | perform the          |
|                      |                      | following:**         |
|                      | > Maintain a list of |                      |
|                      | > SNPNs according to | > Search for cells   |
|                      | > TS 23.122 \[9\].   | > broadcasting a     |
|                      | > Select a SNPN      | > CAG-ID.            |
|                      | > using automatic or | >                    |
|                      | > manual mode as     | > Read the HRNN (if  |
|                      | > specified in TS    | > broadcast) for     |
|                      | > 23.122 \[9\] and   | > each CAG-ID if a   |
|                      | > request AS to      | > cell broadcasting  |
|                      | > select a cell      | > a CAG-ID is found. |
|                      | > belonging to this  | >                    |
|                      | > SNPN.              | > Report CAG-ID(s)   |
|                      |                      | > of found cell(s)   |
|                      | Evaluate reports of  | > broadcasting a     |
|                      | available SNPNs from | > CAG-ID together    |
|                      | AS for SNPN          | > with the           |
|                      | selection.           | > associated manual  |
|                      |                      | > CAG selection      |
|                      |                      | > allowed indicator, |
|                      |                      | > HRNN and PLMNto    |
|                      |                      | > NAS.               |
|                      |                      | >                    |
|                      |                      | > On selection of a  |
|                      |                      | > CAG by NAS, select |
|                      |                      | > any acceptable or  |
|                      |                      | > suitable cell      |
|                      |                      | > belonging to the   |
|                      |                      | > selected CAG and   |
|                      |                      | > give an indication |
|                      |                      | > to NAS that access |
|                      |                      | > is possible (for   |
|                      |                      | > the registration   |
|                      |                      | > procedure)         |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | To support manual    |
|                      |                      | SNPN selection,      |
|                      |                      | report available     |
|                      |                      | SNPNs together with  |
|                      |                      | associated HRNNs (if |
|                      |                      | available) to NAS on |
|                      |                      | request from NAS.    |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Cell\                | Control cell         | Perform measurements |
| Selection            | selection for        | needed to support    |
|                      | example by           | cell selection.      |
|                      | indicating RAT(s)    |                      |
|                      | associated with the  | Detect and           |
|                      | selected PLMN to be  | synchronise to a     |
|                      | used initially in    | broadcast channel.   |
|                      | the search of a cell | Receive and handle   |
|                      | in the cell          | broadcast            |
|                      | selection.           | information. Forward |
|                      |                      | NAS system           |
|                      | Maintain a list of   | information to NAS.  |
|                      | \"Forbidden Tracking |                      |
|                      | Areas\" and provide  | Search for a         |
|                      | the list to AS.      | suitable cell. The   |
|                      |                      | cells broadcast one  |
|                      | For a UE not         | or more \'PLMN       |
|                      | operating in SNPN    | identity\' or \'SNPN |
|                      | access mode:         | identity\' (for a UE |
|                      | Maintain Allowed CAG | operating in SNPN    |
|                      | list and optional    | access mode) in the  |
|                      | CAG-only indication  | system information.  |
|                      | along with           | Respond to NAS       |
|                      | associated PLMN      | whether such cell is |
|                      | ID(s) on which the   | found or not.        |
|                      | UE is allowed access |                      |
|                      | and provide these    | If associated RATs   |
|                      | lists to AS. To      | is (are) set for the |
|                      | support manual CAG   | PLMN, perform the    |
|                      | selection, select a  | search in this       |
|                      | CAG and request AS   | (these) RAT(s) and   |
|                      | to select a cell     | other RATs for that  |
|                      | belonging to this    | PLMN as specified in |
|                      | CAG.                 | TS 23.122 \[9\].     |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | If a cell is found   |
|                      |                      | which satisfies cell |
|                      |                      | selection criteria,  |
|                      |                      | camp on that cell.   |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Cell\                | For a UE not         | Perform measurements |
| Reselection          | operating in SNPN    | needed to support    |
|                      | access mode,         | cell reselection.    |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | maintain a list of   | Detect and           |
|                      | equivalent PLMN      | synchronise to a     |
|                      | identities and       | broadcast channel.   |
|                      | provide the list to  | Receive and handle   |
|                      | AS.                  | broadcast            |
|                      |                      | information. Forward |
|                      | Maintain a list of   | NAS system           |
|                      | \"Forbidden Tracking | information to NAS.  |
|                      | Areas\" and provide  |                      |
|                      | the list to AS.      | Change cell if a     |
|                      |                      | more suitable cell   |
|                      | For a UE not         | is found.            |
|                      | operating in SNPN    |                      |
|                      | access mode,         |                      |
|                      | maintain Allowed CAG |                      |
|                      | list and optional    |                      |
|                      | CAG-only indication  |                      |
|                      | along with           |                      |
|                      | associated PLMN      |                      |
|                      | ID(s) on which the   |                      |
|                      | UE is allowed access |                      |
|                      | and provide these    |                      |
|                      | lists to AS.         |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Location             | Register the UE as   | Report registration  |
| registration         | active after power   | area information to  |
|                      | on.                  | NAS.                 |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Register the UE\'s   |                      |
|                      | presence in a        |                      |
|                      | registration area,   |                      |
|                      | for instance         |                      |
|                      | regularly or when    |                      |
|                      | entering a new       |                      |
|                      | tracking area.       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Deregister UE when   |                      |
|                      | shutting down.       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Maintain a list of   |                      |
|                      | \"Forbidden Tracking |                      |
|                      | Areas\".             |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Control and restrict |                      |
|                      | location             |                      |
|                      | registration for a   |                      |
|                      | UE in eCall Only     |                      |
|                      | Mode.                |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| RAN Notification     | Not applicable.      | Register the UE\'s   |
| Area Update          |                      | presence in a        |
|                      |                      | RAN-based            |
|                      |                      | notification area    |
|                      |                      | (RNA), periodically  |
|                      |                      | or when entering a   |
|                      |                      | new RNA.             |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

4.3 Service types in RRC\_IDLE state
------------------------------------

This clause defines the level of service that may be provided by the
network to a UE in RRC\_IDLE state. The following three levels of
services are provided while a UE is in RRC\_IDLE state:

\- Limited service (emergency calls, ETWS and CMAS on an acceptable
cell);

\- Normal service (for public use or non-public use on a suitable cell);

\- Operator service (for operators only on a reserved cell).

4.4 Service types in RRC\_INACTIVE state
----------------------------------------

This clause defines the level of service that may be provided by the
network to a UE in RRC\_INACTIVE state. The following two levels of
services are provided while a UE is in RRC\_INACTIVE state:

\- Normal service (for public use or non-public use on a suitable cell);

\- Operator service (for operators only on a reserved cell).

4.5 Cell Categories
-------------------

The cells are categorised according to which services they offer:

**acceptable cell:**

An \"acceptable cell\" is a cell on which the UE may camp to obtain
limited service (originate emergency calls and receive ETWS and CMAS
notifications). Such a cell shall fulfil the following requirements,
which is the minimum set of requirements to initiate an emergency call
and to receive ETWS and CMAS notification in an NR network:

\- The cell is not barred, see clause 5.3.1;

\- The cell selection criteria are fulfilled, see clause 5.2.3.2.

**suitable cell:**

For UE not operating in SNPN Access Mode, a cell is considered as
suitable if the following conditions are fulfilled:

\- The cell is part of either the selected PLMN or the registered PLMN
or PLMN of the Equivalent PLMN list, and for that PLMN either:

\- The PLMN-ID of that PLMN is broadcast by the cell with no associated
CAG-IDs and CAG-only indication in the UE for that PLMN (TS 23.501
\[10\]) is absent or false;

\- Allowed CAG list in the UE for that PLMN (TS 23.501 \[10\]) includes
a CAG-ID broadcast by the cell for that PLMN;

\- The cell selection criteria are fulfilled, see clause 5.2.3.2.

According to the latest information provided by NAS:

\- The cell is not barred, see clause 5.3.1;

\- The cell is part of at least one TA that is not part of the list of
\"Forbidden Tracking Areas for Roaming\" (TS 22.011 \[18\]), which
belongs to a PLMN that fulfils the first bullet above.

For UE operating in SNPN Access Mode, a cell is considered as suitable
if the following conditions are fulfilled:

\- The cell is part of either the selected SNPN or the registered SNPN
of the UE;

\- The cell selection criteria are fulfilled, see clause 5.2.3.2;

According to the latest information provided by NAS:

\- The cell is not barred, see clause 5.3.1;

\- The cell is part of at least one TA that is not part of the list of
\"Forbidden Tracking Areas for Roaming\" which belongs to either the
selected SNPN or the registered SNPN of the UE.

**barred cell:**

A cell is barred if it is so indicated in the system information, as
specified in TS 38.331 \[3\].

**reserved cell:**

A cell is reserved if it is so indicated in system information, as
specified in TS 38.331 \[3\].

Following exception to these definitions are applicable for UEs:

\- if a UE has an ongoing emergency call, all acceptable cells of that
PLMN are treated as suitable for the duration of the emergency call.

\- camped on a cell that belongs to a tracking area that is forbidden
for regional provision of service; a cell that belongs to a tracking
area that is forbidden for regional provision service (TS 23.122 \[9\],
TS 24.501 \[14\]) is suitable but provides only limited service.

\- if the UE in RRC\_IDLE fulfils the conditions to support NR sidelink
communication or V2X sidelink communication in limited service state as
specified in TS23.287 \[16\] clause 5.7, the UE may perform NR sidelink
communication or V2X sidelink communication.

> NOTE: UE is not required to support manual search and selection of
> PLMN or CAG or SNPN while in RRC CONNECTED state. The UE may use local
> release of RRC connection to perform manual search if it is not
> possible to perform the search while RRC connected.

5 Process and procedure descriptions
====================================

5.1 PLMN selection and SNPN selection
-------------------------------------

In the UE not operating in SNPN access mode, the AS shall report
available PLMNs and any associated CAG-IDs to the NAS on request from
the NAS or autonomously. In the UE operating in SNPN access mode, the AS
shall report available SNPNs to the NAS on request from the NAS or
autonomously.

During PLMN selection, based on the list of PLMN identities in priority
order, the particular PLMN may be selected either automatically or
manually. Each PLMN in the list of PLMN identities is identified by a
\'PLMN identity\'. In the system information on the broadcast channel,
the UE can receive one or multiple \'PLMN identity\' in a given cell.
The result of the PLMN selection performed by NAS (see TS 23.122 \[9\])
is an identifier of the selected PLMN.

During SNPN selection, based on the list of SNPN identities, the
particular SNPN may be selected either automatically or manually. Each
SNPN in the list of SNPN identities is identified by a \'SNPN
identity\'. In the system information on the broadcast channel, the UE
can receive one or multiple \'SNPN identity\' in a given cell and
optionally may receive associated HRNNs. The result of the SNPN
selection performed by NAS (see TS 23.122 \[9\]) is an identifier of the
selected SNPN.

### 5.1.1 Support for PLMN selection

#### 5.1.1.1 General

On request of the NAS, the AS shall perform a search for available PLMNs
and report them to NAS.

#### 5.1.1.2 NR case

The UE shall scan all RF channels in the NR bands according to its
capabilities to find available PLMNs and available CAGs. On each
carrier, the UE shall search for the strongest cell and read its system
information, in order to find out which PLMN(s) the cell belongs to and
any associated CAG(s). For operation with shared spectrum channel
access, the UE may also read the system information of multiple
strongest cell(s). If the UE can read one or several PLMN identities in
the strongest cell or the multiple strongest cell(s) in case of
operation with shared spectrum channel access, each found PLMN (see the
PLMN reading in TS 38.331 \[3\]) shall be reported to the NAS as a high
quality PLMN (but without the RSRP value) and any associated CAG-ID,
provided that the following high-quality criterion is fulfilled:

1\. For an NR cell, the measured RSRP value shall be greater than or
equal to -110 dBm.

Found PLMNs that do not satisfy the high-quality criterion but for which
the UE has been able to read the PLMN identities are reported to the NAS
together with their corresponding RSRP values and any associated CAG-ID.
The quality measure reported by the UE to NAS shall be the same for each
PLMN found in one cell.

The search for PLMNs may be stopped on request from the NAS. The UE may
optimise PLMN search by using stored information e.g. frequencies and
optionally also information on cell parameters from previously received
measurement control information elements.

Once the UE has selected a PLMN, the cell selection procedure shall be
performed in order to select a suitable cell of that PLMN to camp on.

To support manual CAG selection, the UE shall upon request by NAS report
available CAG-ID(s) together with their manual CAG selection allowed
indicator (if broadcast), HRNN (if broadcast) and PLMN(s) to the NAS. If
NAS has selected a CAG and provided this selection to AS, the UE shall
search for an acceptable or suitable cell belonging to the selected CAG
to camp on.

#### 5.1.1.3 E-UTRA case

Support for PLMN selection in E-UTRA is described in TS 36.304 \[7\].

### 5.1.2 Support for SNPN selection

#### 5.1.2.1 General

On request of the NAS, the AS shall perform a search for available SNPNs
on only NR cells and report them to NAS.

#### 5.1.2.2 NR case

The UE shall scan all RF channels in the NR bands according to its
capabilities to find available SNPNs. On each carrier, the UE shall
search for the strongest cell and read its system information, in order
to find out which SNPN(s) the cell belongs to. For operation with shared
spectrum channel access, the UE may also read the system information of
multiple strongest cell(s). If the UE can read one or several SNPN
identities in the strongest cell, each found SNPN (see the SNPN reading
in TS 38.331 \[3\]) shall be reported to the NAS. For manual selection,
UE shall upon request by NAS report available SNPN identifiers together
with their HRNN (if broadcast) to the NAS and the search for available
SNPNs may be stopped on request of the NAS.

The search for SNPNs may be stopped on request from the NAS. The UE may
optimise SNPN search by using stored information e.g. frequencies and
optionally also information on cell parameters from previously received
measurement control information elements.

Once the UE has selected a SNPN, the cell selection procedure shall be
performed in order to select a suitable cell of that SNPN to camp on.

5.2 Cell selection and reselection
----------------------------------

### 5.2.1 Introduction

UE shall perform measurements for cell selection and reselection
purposes as specified in TS 38.133 \[8\].

When evaluating Srxlev and Squal of non-serving cells for reselection
evaluation purposes, the UE shall use parameters provided by the serving
cell and for the final check on cell selection criterion, the UE shall
use parameters provided by the target cell for cell reselection.

The NAS can control the RAT(s) in which the cell selection should be
performed, for instance by indicating RAT(s) associated with the
selected PLMN, and by maintaining a list of forbidden registration
area(s) and a list of equivalent PLMNs. The UE shall select a suitable
cell based on RRC\_IDLE or RRC\_INACTIVE state measurements and cell
selection criteria.

In order to expedite the cell selection process, stored information for
several RATs, if available, may be used by the UE.

When camped on a cell, the UE shall regularly search for a better cell
according to the cell reselection criteria. If a better cell is found,
that cell is selected. The change of cell may imply a change of RAT.
Details on performance requirements for cell reselection can be found in
TS 38.133 \[8\].

The NAS is informed if the cell selection and reselection result in
changes in the received system information relevant for NAS.

For normal service, the UE shall camp on a suitable cell, monitor
control channel(s) of that cell so that the UE can:

\- receive system information from the PLMN or SNPN; and

\- receive registration area information from the PLMN or SNPN, e.g.,
tracking area information; and

\- receive other AS and NAS Information; and

\- if registered:

\- receive paging and notification messages from the PLMN or SNPN; and

\- initiate transfer to Connected mode.

For cell selection in multi-beam operations, measurement quantity of a
cell is up to UE implementation.

For cell reselection in multi-beam operations, including inter-RAT
reselection from E-UTRA to NR, the measurement quantity of this cell is
derived amongst the beams corresponding to the same cell based on
SS/PBCH block as follows:

> \- if *nrofSS-BlocksToAverage* (*maxRS-IndexCellQual* in E-UTRA) is
> not configured in *SIB2/SIB4* (*SIB24* in E-UTRA); or
>
> \- if *absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation* (*threshRS-Index* in E-UTRA)
> is not configured in *SIB2/SIB4* (*SIB24* in E-UTRA); or

\- if the highest beam measurement quantity value is below or equal to
*absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation* (*threshRS-Index* in E-UTRA):

\- derive a cell measurement quantity as the highest beam measurement
quantity value, where each beam measurement quantity is described in TS
38.215 \[11\].

> \- else:

\- derive a cell measurement quantity as the linear average of the power
values of up to *nrofSS-BlocksToAverage* (*maxRS-IndexCellQual* in
E-UTRA) of highest beam measurement quantity values above
*absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation* (*threshRS-Index* in E-UTRA).

### 5.2.2 States and state transitions in RRC\_IDLE state and RRC\_INACTIVE state

Figure 5.2.2-1 shows the states and state transitions and procedures in
RRC\_IDLE and RRC\_INACTIVE. Whenever a new PLMN selection or new SNPN
selection is performed, it causes an exit to number 1.

Figure 5.2.2-1: RRC\_IDLE and RRC\_INACTIVE Cell Selection and
Reselection

### 5.2.3 Cell Selection process

#### 5.2.3.1 Description

Cell selection is performed by one of the following two procedures:

a\) Initial cell selection (no prior knowledge of which RF channels are
NR frequencies):

1\. The UE shall scan all RF channels in the NR bands according to its
capabilities to find a suitable cell.

2\. On each frequency, the UE need only search for the strongest cell,
except for operation with shared spectrum channel access where the UE
may search for the next strongest cell(s).

3\. Once a suitable cell is found, this cell shall be selected.

b\) Cell selection by leveraging stored information:

1\. This procedure requires stored information of frequencies and
optionally also information on cell parameters from previously received
measurement control information elements or from previously detected
cells.

2\. Once the UE has found a suitable cell, the UE shall select it.

3\. If no suitable cell is found, the initial cell selection procedure
in a) shall be started.

NOTE: Priorities between different frequencies or RATs provided to the
UE by system information or dedicated signalling are not used in the
cell selection process.

#### 5.2.3.2 Cell Selection Criterion

The cell selection criterion S is fulfilled when:

  ----------------------------
  Srxlev \> 0 AND Squal \> 0
  ----------------------------

where:

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Srxlev = Q~rxlevmeas~ -- (Q~rxlevmin~ + Q~rxlevminoffset~ )--        |
| P~compensation~ - **Qoffset~temp~**                                  |
|                                                                      |
| Squal = Q~qualmeas~ -- (Q~qualmin~ + Q~qualminoffset~) -             |
| **Qoffset~temp~**                                                    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+

where:

+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Srxlev             | Cell selection RX level value (dB)             |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Squal              | Cell selection quality value (dB)              |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| **Qoffset~temp~**  | Offset temporarily applied to a cell as        |
|                    | specified in TS 38.331 \[3\] (dB)              |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Q~rxlevmeas~       | Measured cell RX level value (RSRP)            |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Q~qualmeas~        | Measured cell quality value (RSRQ)             |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Q~rxlevmin~        | Minimum required RX level in the cell (dBm).   |
|                    | If the UE supports SUL frequency for this      |
|                    | cell, Q~rxlevmin~ is obtained from             |
|                    | *q-**RxLevMinSUL*****, if present,** in        |
|                    | *SIB1*, *SIB2* and *SIB4*, additionally, if    |
|                    | Q~rxlevminoffsetcellSUL~ is present in *SIB3*  |
|                    | and *SIB4* for the concerned cell, this cell   |
|                    | specific offset is added to the corresponding  |
|                    | Qrxlevmin to achieve the required minimum RX   |
|                    | level in the concerned cell;                   |
|                    |                                                |
|                    | else Q~rxlevmin~ is obtained from              |
|                    | ***q-RxLevMin*** in *SIB1, SIB2* and *SIB4*,   |
|                    | additionally, if Q~rxlevminoffsetcell~ is      |
|                    | present in *SIB3* and *SIB4* for the concerned |
|                    | cell, this cell specific offset is added to    |
|                    | the corresponding Qrxlevmin to achieve the     |
|                    | required minimum RX level in the concerned     |
|                    | cell.                                          |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Q~qualmin~         | Minimum required quality level in the cell     |
|                    | (dB). Additionally, if Q~qualminoffsetcell~ is |
|                    | signalled for the concerned cell, this cell    |
|                    | specific offset is added to achieve the        |
|                    | required minimum quality level in the          |
|                    | concerned cell.                                |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Q~rxlevminoffset~  | Offset to the signalled Q~rxlevmin~ taken into |
|                    | account in the Srxlev evaluation as a result   |
|                    | of a periodic search for a higher priority     |
|                    | PLMN while camped normally in a VPLMN, as      |
|                    | specified in TS 23.122 \[9\].                  |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| Q~qualminoffset~   | Offset to the signalled Q~qualmin~ taken into  |
|                    | account in the Squal evaluation as a result of |
|                    | a periodic search for a higher priority PLMN   |
|                    | while camped normally in a VPLMN, as specified |
|                    | in TS 23.122 \[9\].                            |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| P~compensation~    | For FR1, if the UE supports the                |
|                    | *additionalPmax* in the *NR-NS-PmaxList*, if   |
|                    | present, in *SIB1, SIB2* and *SIB4:*           |
|                    |                                                |
|                    | *max(P~EMAX1~ --P~PowerClass~, 0) --           |
|                    | (min(P~EMAX2~, P~PowerClass~) -- min(P~EMAX1~, |
|                    | P~PowerClass~)) (dB);*                         |
|                    |                                                |
|                    | *else:*                                        |
|                    |                                                |
|                    | *max(P~EMAX1~ --P~PowerClass~, 0) (dB)*        |
|                    |                                                |
|                    | For FR2, P~compensation~ is set to 0.          |
|                    |                                                |
|                    | For IAB-MT, P~compensation~ is set to 0.       |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| P~EMAX1~, P~EMAX2~ | Maximum TX power level of a UE may use when    |
|                    | transmitting on the uplink in the cell (dBm)   |
|                    | defined as P~EMAX~ in TS 38.101 \[15\]. If UE  |
|                    | supports SUL frequency for this cell, P~EMAX1~ |
|                    | and P~EMAX2~ are obtained from the *p-Max* for |
|                    | SUL in *SIB1* and *NR-NS-PmaxList* for SUL     |
|                    | respectively in *SIB1, SIB2* and *SIB4* as     |
|                    | specified in TS 38.331 \[3\], else P~EMAX1~    |
|                    | and P~EMAX2~ are obtained from the *p-Max* and |
|                    | *NR-NS-PmaxList* respectively in *SIB1*,       |
|                    | *SIB2* and *SIB4* for normal UL as specified   |
|                    | in TS 38.331 \[3\].                            |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| P~PowerClass~      | Maximum RF output power of the UE (dBm)        |
|                    | according to the UE power class as defined in  |
|                    | TS 38.101-1 \[15\].                            |
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+

The signalled values Q~rxlevminoffset~ and Q~qualminoffset~ are only
applied when a cell is evaluated for cell selection as a result of a
periodic search for a higher priority PLMN while camped normally in a
VPLMN (TS 23.122 \[9\]). During this periodic search for higher priority
PLMN, the UE may check the S criteria of a cell using parameter values
stored from a different cell of this higher priority PLMN.

#### 5.2.3.3 E-UTRAN case in Cell Selection

The cell selection criteria and procedures in E-UTRAN are specified in
TS 36.304 \[7\].

### 5.2.4 Cell Reselection evaluation process

#### 5.2.4.1 Reselection priorities handling

Absolute priorities of different NR frequencies or inter-RAT frequencies
may be provided to the UE in the system information, in the *RRCRelease*
message, or by inheriting from another RAT at inter-RAT cell
(re)selection. In the case of system information, an NR frequency or
inter-RAT frequency may be listed without providing a priority (i.e. the
field *cellReselectionPriority* is absent for that frequency). If
priorities are provided in dedicated signalling, the UE shall ignore all
the priorities provided in system information. If UE is in *camped on
any cell* state, UE shall only apply the priorities provided by system
information from current cell, and the UE preserves priorities provided
by dedicated signalling and *deprioritisationReq* received in
*RRCRelease* unless specified otherwise. When the UE in camped normally
state, has only dedicated priorities other than for the current
frequency, the UE shall consider the current frequency to be the lowest
priority frequency (i.e. lower than any of the network configured
values). If the UE is configured to perform both NR sidelink
communication and V2X sidelink communication, the UE may consider the
frequency providing both NR sidelink communication configuration and V2X
sidelink communication configuration to be the highest priority. If the
UE is configured to perform NR sidelink communication and not perform
V2X communication, the UE may consider the frequency providing NR
sidelink communication configuration to be the highest priority. If the
UE is configured to perform V2X sidelink communication and not perform
NR sidelink communication, the UE may consider the frequency providing
V2X sidelink communication configuration to be the highest priority.

NOTE 0a: The frequency only providing the anchor frequency configuration
should not be prioritized for V2X service during cell reselection, as
specified in TS 38.331\[3\].

NOTE 0b: When UE is configured to perform NR sidelink communication or
V2X sidelink communication performs cell reselection, it may
consider the frequencies providing the intra-carrier and inter-carrier
configuration have equal priority in cell reselection.

NOTE 0c: The prioritization among the frequencies which UE considers to
be the highest priority frequency is left to UE implementation.

NOTE 0d: The UE is configured to perform V2X sidelink communication or
NR sidelink communication, if it has the capability and is authorized
for the corresponding sidelink operation.

NOTE 0e: When UE is configured to perform both NR sidelink communication
and V2X sidelink communication, but cannot find a frequency which can
provide both NR sidelink communication configuration and V2X sidelink
communication configuration, UE may consider the frequency providing
either NR sidelink communication configuration or V2X sidelink
communication configuration to be the highest priority.

The UE shall only perform cell reselection evaluation for NR frequencies
and inter-RAT frequencies that are given in system information and for
which the UE has a priority provided.

In case UE receives *RRCRelease* with *deprioritisationReq*, UE shall
consider current frequency and stored frequencies due to the previously
received *RRCRelease* with *deprioritisationReq* or all the frequencies
of NR to be the lowest priority frequency (i.e. lower than any of the
network configured values) while T325 is running irrespective of camped
RAT. The UE shall delete the stored deprioritisation request(s) when a
PLMN selection or SNPN selection is performed on request by NAS (TS
23.122 \[9\]).

NOTE 1: UE should search for a higher priority layer for cell
reselection as soon as possible after the change of priority. The
minimum related performance requirements specified in TS 38.133 \[8\]
are still applicable.

NOTE 1a: The UE does not consider NR sidelink communication or V2X
sidelink communication functionality to replace cell reselection
priorities caused by *deprioritisationReq* functionality.

The UE shall delete priorities provided by dedicated signalling when:

\- the UE enters a different RRC state; or

\- the optional validity time of dedicated priorities (T320) expires; or

\- the UE receives an *RRCRelease* message with the field
*cellReselectionPriorities* absent; or

\- a PLMN selection or SNPN selection is performed on request by NAS (TS
23.122 \[9\]).

NOTE 2: Equal priorities between RATs are not supported.

The UE shall not consider any black listed cells as candidate for cell
reselection.

The UE shall consider only the white listed cells, if configured, as
candidates for cell reselection.

The UE in RRC\_IDLE state shall inherit the priorities provided by
dedicated signalling and the remaining validity time (i.e. T320 in NR
and E-UTRA), if configured, at inter-RAT cell (re)selection.

NOTE 3: The network may assign dedicated cell reselection priorities for
frequencies not configured by system information.

#### 5.2.4.2 Measurement rules for cell re-selection

Following rules are used by the UE to limit needed measurements:

\- If the serving cell fulfils Srxlev \> S~IntraSearchP~ and Squal \>
S~IntraSearchQ~, the UE may choose not to perform intra-frequency
measurements.

\- Otherwise, the UE shall perform intra-frequency measurements.

\- The UE shall apply the following rules for NR inter-frequencies and
inter-RAT frequencies which are indicated in system information and for
which the UE has priority provided as defined in 5.2.4.1:

\- For a NR inter-frequency or inter-RAT frequency with a reselection
priority higher than the reselection priority of the current NR
frequency, the UE shall perform measurements of higher priority NR
inter-frequency or inter-RAT frequencies according to TS 38.133 \[8\].

\- For a NR inter-frequency with an equal or lower reselection priority
than the reselection priority of the current NR frequency and for
inter-RAT frequency with lower reselection priority than the reselection
priority of the current NR frequency:

\- If the serving cell fulfils Srxlev \> S~nonIntraSearchP~ and Squal \>
S~nonIntraSearchQ~, the UE may choose not to perform measurements of NR
inter-frequency cells of equal or lower priority, or inter-RAT frequency
cells of lower priority;

\- Otherwise, the UE shall perform measurements of NR inter-frequency
cells of equal or lower priority, or inter-RAT frequency cells of lower
priority according to TS 38.133 \[8\].

\- If the UE supports relaxed measurement and *relaxedMeasurement* is
present in *SIB2*, the UE may further relax the needed measurements, as
specified in clause 5.2.4.9.

#### 5.2.4.3 Mobility states of a UE

##### 5.2.4.3.0 Introduction

The UE mobility state is determined if the parameters (T~CRmax~,
N~CR\_H~, N~CR\_M~ and T~CRmaxHyst~) are broadcasted in system
information for the serving cell.

**State detection criteria:**

Normal-mobility state criteria:

\- If number of cell reselections during time period T~CRmax~ is less
than N~CR\_M~.

Medium-mobility state criteria:

\- If number of cell reselections during time period T~CRmax~ is greater
than or equal to N~CR\_M~ but less than or equal to N~CR\_H~.

High-mobility state criteria:

\- If number of cell reselections during time period T~CRmax~ is greater
than N~CR\_H~.

The UE shall not consider consecutive reselections where a cell is
reselected again right after one reselection for mobility state
detection criteria.

**State transitions:**

The UE shall:

\- if the criteria for High-mobility state is detected:

\- enter High-mobility state.

\- else if the criteria for Medium-mobility state is detected:

\- enter Medium-mobility state.

\- else if criteria for either Medium- or High-mobility state is not
detected during time period T~CRmaxHys**t**~:

\- enter Normal-mobility state.

If the UE is in High- or Medium-mobility state, the UE shall apply the
speed dependent scaling rules as defined in clause 5.2.4.3.1.

##### 5.2.4.3.1 Scaling rules

UE shall apply the following scaling rules:

\- If neither Medium- nor High-mobility state is detected:

\- no scaling is applied.

\- If High-mobility state is detected:

\- Add the *sf-High* of \"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Q~hyst~\" to
Q~hyst~ if broadcasted in system information;

\- For NR cells, multiply **Treselection~NR~** by the *sf-High* of
\"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~NR~\" if broadcasted in
system information;

\- For EUTRA cells, multiply **Treselection~EUTRA~** by the *sf-High* of
\"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~EUTRA~\" if broadcasted
in system information.

\- If Medium-mobility state is detected:

\- Add the *sf-Medium* of \"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Q~hyst~\"
to Q~hyst~ if broadcasted in system information;

\- For NR cells, multiply **Treselection~NR~** by the *sf-Medium* of
\"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~NR~\" if broadcasted in
system information;

\- For EUTRA cells, multiply **Treselection~EUTRA~** by the *sf-Medium*
of \"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~EUTRA~\" if
broadcasted in system information.

In case scaling is applied to any **Treselection~RAT~** parameter, the
UE shall round up the result after all scalings to the nearest second.

#### 5.2.4.4 Cells with cell reservations, access restrictions or unsuitable for normal camping

For the highest ranked cell (including serving cell) according to cell
reselection criteria specified in clause 5.2.4.6, for the best cell
according to absolute priority reselection criteria specified in clause
5.2.4.5, the UE shall check if the access is restricted according to the
rules in clause 5.3.1.

If that cell and other cells have to be excluded from the candidate
list, as stated in clause 5.3.1, the UE shall not consider these as
candidates for cell reselection. This limitation shall be removed when
the highest ranked cell changes.

If the highest ranked cell or best cell according to absolute priority
reselection rules is an intra-frequency or inter-frequency cell which is
not suitable due to one or more of the following reasons:

\- this cell belongs to a PLMN which is not indicated as being
equivalent to the registered PLMN, or

\- this cell is a CAG cell that belongs to a PLMN which is equivalent to
the registered PLMN but with no CAG-ID that is present in the UE\'s
allowed CAG list being broadcasted, or

\- this cell is not a CAG cell and the CAG-only indication in the UE is
set, or

\- this cell does not belong to a SNPN that is equal to the registered
or selected SNPN of the UE in SNPN access mode,

the UE shall not consider this cell and, for operation in licensed
spectrum, other cells on the same frequency as candidates for
reselection for a maximum of 300 seconds.

For operation with shared spectrum channel access, when the highest
ranked cell or best cell is not a candidate for reselection per the
previous paragraph, the UE should continue to consider other cells on
the same frequency for cell reselection, however if the second highest
ranked cell on this frequency is also not suitable due to one or more of
the above reasons, the UE may consider this frequency to be the lowest
priority for a maximum of 300 seconds.

If the highest ranked cell or best cell according to absolute priority
reselection rules is an intra-frequency or inter-frequency cell which is
not suitable due to being part of the \"list of 5GS forbidden TAs for
roaming\", the UE shall not consider this cell and other cells on the
same frequency as candidates for reselection for a maximum of 300
seconds.

If the highest ranked cell or best cell according to absolute priority
reselection rules is an inter-RAT cell which is not suitable due to
being part of the \"list of forbidden TAs for roaming\" or belonging to
a PLMN which is not indicated as being equivalent to the registered
PLMN, the UE shall not consider this cell and other cells on the same
frequency, as candidates for reselection for a maximum of 300 seconds.

If the UE enters into state *any cell selection*, any limitation shall
be removed. If the UE is redirected under NR control to a frequency for
which the timer is running, the limitation(s) on that frequency shall be
removed.

#### 5.2.4.5 NR Inter-frequency and inter-RAT Cell Reselection criteria

If ***threshServingLowQ*** is broadcast in system information and more
than 1 second has elapsed since the UE camped on the current serving
cell, cell reselection to a cell on a higher priority NR frequency or
inter-RAT frequency than the serving frequency shall be performed if:

\- A cell of a higher priority NR or EUTRAN RAT/frequency fulfils Squal
\> Thresh~X,\ HighQ~ during a time interval Treselection~RAT~

Otherwise, cell reselection to a cell on a higher priority NR frequency
or inter-RAT frequency than the serving frequency shall be performed if:

\- A cell of a higher priority RAT/ frequency fulfils Srxlev \>
Thresh~X,\ HighP~ during a time interval Treselection~RAT~; and

\- More than 1 second has elapsed since the UE camped on the current
serving cell.

Cell reselection to a cell on an equal priority NR frequency shall be
based on ranking for intra-frequency cell reselection as defined in
clause 5.2.4.6.

If ***threshServingLowQ*** is broadcast in system information and more
than 1 second has elapsed since the UE camped on the current serving
cell, cell reselection to a cell on a lower priority NR frequency or
inter-RAT frequency than the serving frequency shall be performed if:

\- The serving cell fulfils Squal \< Thresh~Serving,\ LowQ~ and a cell
of a lower priority NR or E-UTRAN RAT/ frequency fulfils Squal \>
Thresh~X,\ LowQ~ during a time interval Treselection~RAT~.

Otherwise, cell reselection to a cell on a lower priority NR frequency
or inter-RAT frequency than the serving frequency shall be performed if:

\- The serving cell fulfils Srxlev \< Thresh~Serving,\ LowP~ and a cell
of a lower priority RAT/ frequency fulfils Srxlev \> Thresh~X,\ LowP~
during a time interval Treselection~RAT~; and

> \- More than 1 second has elapsed since the UE camped on the current
> serving cell.

Cell reselection to a higher priority RAT/frequency shall take
precedence over a lower priority RAT/frequency if multiple cells of
different priorities fulfil the cell reselection criteria.

If more than one cell meets the above criteria, the UE shall reselect a
cell as follows:

\- If the highest-priority frequency is an NR frequency, the highest
ranked cell among the cells on the highest priority frequency(ies)
meeting the criteria according to clause 5.2.4.6;

\- If the highest-priority frequency is from another RAT, the strongest
cell among the cells on the highest priority frequency(ies) meeting the
criteria of that RAT.

#### 5.2.4.6 Intra-frequency and equal priority inter-frequency Cell Reselection criteria

The cell-ranking criterion R~s~ for serving cell and R~n~ for
neighbouring cells is defined by:

+-------------------------------------------+
| R~s~ = Q~meas,s~ +Q~hyst~ - Qoffset~temp~ |
|                                           |
| R~n~ = Q~meas,n~ -Qoffset - Qoffset~temp~ |
+-------------------------------------------+

where:

+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| Q~meas~       | RSRP measurement quantity used in cell              |
|               | reselections.                                       |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| Qoffset       | For intra-frequency: Equals to Qoffset~s,n~, if     |
|               | Qoffset~s,n~ is valid, otherwise this equals to     |
|               | zero.                                               |
|               |                                                     |
|               | For inter-frequency: Equals to Qoffset~s,n~ plus    |
|               | Qoffset~frequency~, if Qoffset~s,n~ is valid,       |
|               | otherwise this equals to Qoffset~frequency~.        |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| Qoffset~temp~ | Offset temporarily applied to a cell as specified   |
|               | in TS 38.331 \[3\].                                 |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

The UE shall perform ranking of all cells that fulfil the cell selection
criterion S, which is defined in 5.2.3.2.

The cells shall be ranked according to the R criteria specified above by
deriving Q~meas,n~ and Q~meas,s~ and calculating the R values using
averaged RSRP results.

If *rangeToBestCell* is not configured, the UE shall perform cell
reselection to the highest ranked cell. If this cell is found to be
not-suitable, the UE shall behave according to clause 5.2.4.4.

If *rangeToBestCell* is configured*,* then the UE shall perform cell
reselection to the cell with the highest number of beams above the
threshold (i.e. *absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation*) among the cells whose
R value is within *rangeToBestCell* of the R value of the highest ranked
cell. If there are multiple such cells, the UE shall perform cell
reselection to the highest ranked cell among them. If this cell is found
to be not-suitable, the UE shall behave according to clause 5.2.4.4.

In all cases, the UE shall reselect the new cell, only if the following
conditions are met:

\- the new cell is better than the serving cell according to the cell
reselection criteria specified above during a time interval
Treselection~RAT~;

\- more than 1 second has elapsed since the UE camped on the current
serving cell.

NOTE: If *rangeToBestCell* is configured but
*absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation* is not configured on an NR frequency,
the UE considers that there is one beam above the threshold for each
cell on that frequency.

#### 5.2.4.7 Cell reselection parameters in system information broadcasts

##### 5.2.4.7.0 General reselection parameters

Cell reselection parameters are broadcast in system information and are
read from the serving cell as follows:

**absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation**

This specifies the minimum threshold for beams which can be used for
selection of the highest ranked cells, if *rangeToBestCell* is
configured, and for beams used for derivation of ***cell measurement
quantity.*** The parameter in *SIB2* applies to the current serving
frequency and the parameter in *SIB4* applies to the corresponding
inter-frequency.

**cellReselectionPriority**

This specifies the absolute priority for NR frequency or E-UTRAN
frequency.

**cellReselectionSubPriority**

This specifies the fractional priority value added to
cellReselectionPriority for NR frequency or E-UTRAN frequency.

**combineRelaxedMeasCondition**

This indicates when the UE needs to fulfil both low mobility criterion
and not-at-cell-edge criterion to determine whether **to relax
measurement** requirement**s.**

**nrofSS-BlocksToAverage**

This specifies the number of beams which can be used for selection of
the highest ranked cell, if *rangeToBestCell* is configured, and the
number of beams used for derivation of cell measurement quantity. The
parameter in *SIB2* applies to the current serving frequency and the
parameter in *SIB4* applies to the corresponding inter-frequency.

**Qoffset~s,n~**

This specifies the offset between the two cells.

**Qoffset~frequency~**

Frequency specific offset for equal priority NR frequencies.

**Q~hyst~**

This specifies the hysteresis value for ranking criteria.

**Qoffset~temp~**

This specifies the additional offset to be used for cell selection and
re-selection. It is temporarily used in case the RRC Connection
Establishment fails on the cell as specified in TS 38.331 \[3\].

**Q~qualmin~**

This specifies the minimum required quality level in the cell in dB.

**Q~rxlevmin~**

This specifies the minimum required Rx level in the cell in dBm.

**Q~rxlevminoffsetcell~**

This specifies the cell specific Rx level offset in dB to Qrxlevmin.

**Q~qualminoffsetcell~**

This specifies the cell specific quality level offset in dB to Qqualmin.

**rangeToBestCell**

This specifies the R value range which the cells whose R value is within
the range can be a candidate for the highest ranked cell. It is
configured in SIB2 and used for intra-frequency and equal priority
inter-frequency cell reselection and among the cells on the highest
priority frequency(ies) for inter-frequency cell reselection within NR.

**S~IntraSearchP~**

This specifies the Srxlev threshold (in dB) for intra-frequency
measurements.

**S~IntraSearchQ~**

This specifies the Squal threshold (in dB) for intra-frequency
measurements.

**S~nonIntraSearchP~**

This specifies the Srxlev threshold (in dB) for NR inter-frequency and
inter-RAT measurements.

**S~nonIntraSearchQ~**

This specifies the Squal threshold (in dB) for NR inter-frequency and
inter-RAT measurements.

**S~SearchDeltaP~**

This specifies the threshold (in dB) on Srxlev variation for relaxed
measurement.

**S~SearchThresholdP~**

This specifies the Srxlev threshold (in dB) for relaxed measurement.

**S~SearchThresholdQ~**

This specifies the Squal threshold (in dB) for relaxed measurement.

**Treselection~RAT~**

This specifies the cell reselection timer value. For each target NR
frequency and for each RAT other than NR, a specific value for the cell
reselection timer is defined, which is applicable when evaluating
reselection within NR or towards other RAT (i.e. Treselection~RAT~ for
NR is Treselection~NR~, for E-UTRAN Treselection~EUTRA~).

NOTE: Treselection~RAT~ is not broadcast in system information but used
in reselection rules by the UE for each RAT.

**Treselection~NR~**

This specifies the cell reselection timer value Treselection~RAT~ for
NR. The parameter can be set per NR frequency as specified in TS 38.331
\[3\].

**Treselection~EUTRA~**

This specifies the cell reselection timer value Treselection~RAT~ for
E-UTRAN.

**Thresh~X,\ HighP~**

This specifies the Srxlev threshold (in dB) used by the UE when
reselecting towards a higher priority RAT/ frequency than the current
serving frequency. Each frequency of NR and E-UTRAN might have a
specific threshold.

**Thresh~X,\ HighQ~**

This specifies the Squal threshold (in dB) used by the UE when
reselecting towards a higher priority RAT/ frequency than the current
serving frequency. Each frequency of NR and E-UTRAN might have a
specific threshold.

**Thresh~X,\ LowP~**

This specifies the Srxlev threshold (in dB) used by the UE when
reselecting towards a lower priority RAT/ frequency than the current
serving frequency. Each frequency of NR and E-UTRAN might have a
specific threshold.

**Thresh~X,\ LowQ~**

This specifies the Squal threshold (in dB) used by the UE when
reselecting towards a lower priority RAT/ frequency than the current
serving frequency. Each frequency of NR and E-UTRAN might have a
specific threshold.

**Thresh~Serving,\ LowP~**

This specifies the Srxlev threshold (in dB) used by the UE on the
serving cell when reselecting towards a lower priority RAT/ frequency.

**Thresh~Serving,\ LowQ~**

This specifies the Squal threshold (in dB) used by the UE on the serving
cell when reselecting towards a lower priority RAT/ frequency.

**T~SearchDeltaP~**

This specifies the time period over which the Srxlev variation is
evaluated for relaxed measurement.

##### 5.2.4.7.1 Speed dependent reselection parameters

Speed dependent reselection parameters are broadcast in system
information and are read from the serving cell as follows:

**T~CRmax~**

This specifies the duration for evaluating allowed amount of cell
reselection(s).

**N~CR\_M~**

This specifies the maximum number of cell reselections to enter
Medium-mobility state.

**N~CR\_H~**

This specifies the maximum number of cell reselections to enter
High-mobility state.

**T~CRmaxHyst~**

This specifies the additional time period before the UE can enter
Normal-mobility state.

**Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Qhyst**

This specifies scaling factor for Qhyst in *sf-High* for High-mobility
state and *sf-Medium* for Medium-mobility state.

**Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~NR~**

This specifies scaling factor for Treselection~NR~ in *sf-High* for
High-mobility state and *sf-Medium* for Medium-mobility state.

**Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~EUTRA~**

This specifies scaling factor for Treselection~EUTRA~ in *sf-High* for
High-mobility state and *sf-Medium* for Medium-mobility state.

#### 5.2.4.8 Inter-RAT Cell reselection in RRC\_INACTIVE state

For UE in the RRC\_INACTIVE state, upon cell reselection to another RAT,
UE transitions from RRC\_INACTIVE to RRC\_IDLE and performs­ actions as
specified in TS 38.331 \[3\].

#### 5.2.4.9 Relaxed measurement

##### 5.2.4.9.0 Relaxed measurement rules

When the UE is required to perform measurements of intra-frequency cells
or NR inter-frequency cells or inter-RAT frequency cells according to
the measurement rules in clause 5.2.4.2:

\- if *lowMobilityEvaluation* is configured and *cellEdgeEvaluation* is
not configured; and

> \- if the UE has performed normal intra-frequency, NR inter-frequency,
> or inter-RAT frequency measurements for at least T~SearchDeltaP~ after
> (re-)selecting a new cell; and
>
> \- if the relaxed measurement criterion in clause 5.2.4.9.1 is
> fulfilled for a period of T~SearchDeltaP~:

\- the UE may choose to perform relaxed measurements for intra-frequency
cells, NR inter-frequency cells or inter-RAT frequency cells according
to relaxation methods in clauses 4.2.2.9, 4.2.2.10, and 4.2.2.11 in TS
38.133 \[8\];

\- if *cellEdgeEvaluation* is configured and *lowMobilityEvaluation* is
not configured; and

> \- if the relaxed measurement criterion in clause 5.2.4.9.2 is
> fulfilled:

\- the UE may choose to perform relaxed measurements for intra-frequency
cells according to relaxation methods in clauses 4.2.2.9 in TS 38.133
\[8\];

\- if the serving cell fulfils Srxlev **≤** S~nonIntraSearchP~ or Squal
**≤** S~nonIntraSearchQ~:

\- the UE may choose to perform relaxed measurements for NR
inter-frequency cells or inter-RAT frequency cells according to
relaxation methods in clauses 4.2.2.10, and 4.2.2.11 in TS 38.133 \[8\];

\- if both *lowMobilityEvaluation* and *cellEdgeEvaluation* are
configured:

\- if the UE has performed normal intra-frequency, NR inter-frequency,
or inter-RAT frequency measurements for at least T~SearchDeltaP~ after
(re-)selecting a new cell; and

\- if the relaxed measurement criterion in clause 5.2.4.9.1 is fulfilled
for a period of T~SearchDeltaP~; and

\- if the relaxed measurement criterion in clause 5.2.4.9.2 is
fulfilled:

\- the UE may choose to perform relaxed measurements for NR
intra-frequency cells, inter-frequency cells or inter-RAT frequency
cells according to relaxation methods in clauses 4.2.2.9, 4.2.2.10, and
4.2.2.11 in TS 38.133 \[8\];

\- else:

\- if the UE has performed normal intra-frequency, NR inter-frequency,
or inter-RAT frequency measurements for at least T~SearchDeltaP~ after
(re-)selecting a new cell, and the relaxed measurement criterion in
clause 5.2.4.9.1 is fulfilled for a period of T~SearchDeltaP~; or,

\- if the relaxed measurement criterion in clause 5.2.4.9.2 is
fulfilled:

\- if *combineRelaxedMeasCondition* is not configured:

\- the UE may choose to perform relaxed measurements for intra-frequency
cells, NR inter-frequency cells of equal or lower priority, or inter-RAT
frequency cells of lower priority according to relaxation methods in
clauses 4.2.2.9, 4.2.2.10, and 4.2.2.11 in TS 38.133 \[8\];

\- if the serving cell fulfils Srxlev ≤ S~nonIntraSearchP~ or Squal ≤
S~nonIntraSearchQ~:

\- the UE may choose to perform relaxed measurement for NR
inter-frequency cells of higher priority, or inter-RAT frequency cells
of higher priority according to relaxation methods in clauses 4.2.2.10,
and 4.2.2.11 in TS 38.133 \[8\];

The above relaxed measurements and no measurement are not applicable for
frequencies that are included in *VarMeasIdleConfig*, if configured and
for which the UE supports dual connectivity or carrier aggregation
between those frequencies and the frequency of the current serving cell.

##### 5.2.4.9.1 Relaxed measurement criterion for UE with low mobility

The relaxed measurement criterion for UE with low mobility is fulfilled
when:

\- (Srxlev~Ref~ -- Srxlev) \< S~SearchDeltaP~,

Where:

\- Srxlev = current Srxlev value of the serving cell (dB).

\- Srxlev~Ref~ = reference Srxlev value of the serving cell (dB), set as
follows:

\- After selecting or reselecting a new cell, or

\- If (Srxlev - Srxlev~Ref~) \> 0, or

\- If the relaxed measurement criterion has not been met for
T~SearchDeltaP~:

\- The UE shall set the value of Srxlev~Ref~ to the current Srxlev value
of the serving cell.

##### 5.2.4.9.2 Relaxed measurement criterion for UE not at cell edge

The relaxed measurement criterion for UE not at cell edge is fulfilled
when:

\- Srxlev \> S~SearchThresholdP~, and,

\- Squal \> S~SearchThresholdQ~, if S~SearchThresholdQ~ is configured,

Where:

\- Srxlev = current Srxlev value of the serving cell (dB).

\- Squal = current Squal value of the serving cell (dB).

#### 5.2.4.10 Cell reselection with CAG cells

In addition to normal cell reselection, a UE may optionally use an
autonomous search function to detect CAG cells on serving and
non-serving frequencies. However UE shall follow the cell reselection
criteria based on dedicated frequency priorities and only follow the
autonomous cell search result if the result fulfils also the existing
cell reselection criteria based on dedicated frequency priorities.

### 5.2.5 Camped Normally state

This state is applicable for RRC\_IDLE and RRC\_INACTIVE state.

When camped normally, the UE shall perform the following tasks:

\- monitor the paging channel of the cell as specified in clause 7
according to information broadcast in *SIB1*;

\- monitor Short Messages transmitted with P-RNTI over DCI as specified
in clause 6.5 in TS 38.331 \[3\];

\- monitor relevant System Information as specified in TS 38.331 \[3\];

\- perform necessary measurements for the cell reselection evaluation
procedure;

\- execute the cell reselection evaluation process on the following
occasions/triggers:

1\) UE internal triggers, so as to meet performance as specified in TS
38.133 \[8\];

2\) When information on the BCCH used for the cell reselection
evaluation procedure has been modified.

### 5.2.6 Selection of cell at transition to RRC\_IDLE or RRC\_INACTIVE state

At reception of *RRCRelease* message to transition the UE to RRC\_IDLE
or RRC\_INACTIVE, UE shall attempt to camp on a suitable cell according
to *redirectedCarrierInfo* if included in the *RRCRelease* message. If
the UE cannot find a suitable cell, the UE is allowed to camp on any
suitable cell of the indicated RAT. If the *RRCRelease* message does not
contain the *redirectedCarrierInfo,* UE shall attempt to select a
suitable cell on an NR carrier. If no suitable cell is found according
to the above, the UE shall perform cell selection using stored
information in order to find a suitable cell to camp on.

When returning to RRC\_IDLE state after UE moved to RRC\_CONNECTED state
from *camped on any cell* state, UE shall attempt to camp on an
acceptable cell according to *redirectedCarrierInfo*, if included in the
*RRCRelease* message. If the UE cannot find an acceptable cell, the UE
is allowed to camp on any acceptable cell of the indicated RAT. If the
*RRCRelease* message does not contain *redirectedCarrierInfo* UE shall
attempt to select an acceptable cell on an NR frequency. If no
acceptable cell is found according to the above, the UE not in SNPN
Access Mode shall continue to search for an acceptable cell of any PLMN
in state *any cell selection*.

### 5.2.7 Any Cell Selection state

This state is applicable for RRC\_IDLE and RRC\_INACTIVE state. In this
state, the UE shall perform cell selection process to find a suitable
cell. If the cell selection process fails to find a suitable cell after
a complete scan of all RATs and all frequency bands supported by the UE,
the UE not in SNPN Access Mode shall attempt to find an acceptable cell
of any PLMN to camp on, trying all RATs that are supported by the UE and
searching first for a high-quality cell, as defined in clause 5.1.1.2.

The UE, which is not camped on any cell, shall stay in this state.

### 5.2.8 Camped on Any Cell state

This state is only applicable for RRC\_IDLE state. In this state, the UE
shall perform the following tasks:

\- monitor Short Messages transmitted with P-RNTI over DCI as specified
in clause 6.5 in TS 38.331 \[3\];

\- monitor relevant System Information as specified in TS 38.331 \[3\];

\- perform necessary measurements for the cell reselection evaluation
procedure;

\- execute the cell reselection evaluation process on the following
occasions/triggers:

1\) UE internal triggers, so as to meet performance as specified in TS
38.133 \[8\];

2\) When information on the BCCH used for the cell reselection
evaluation procedure has been modified.

\- regularly attempt to find a suitable cell trying all frequencies of
all RATs that are supported by the UE. If a suitable cell is found, UE
shall move to *camped normally* state.

\- if the UE supports voice services and the current cell does not
support IMS emergency calls as indicated by the field
*ims-EmergencySupport* in SIB1 as specified in TS 38.331 \[3\], the UE
shall perform cell selection/reselection to an acceptable cell that
supports emergency calls in any supported RAT regardless of priorities
provided in system information from current cell, if no suitable cell is
found.

5.3 Cell Reservations and Access Restrictions
---------------------------------------------

### 5.3.0 Introduction

There are two mechanisms which allow an operator to impose cell
reservations or access restrictions. The first mechanism uses indication
of cell status and special reservations for control of cell selection
and reselection procedures. The second mechanism, referred to as Unified
Access Control as specified in TS 38.331 \[3\], shall allow preventing
selected access categories or access identities from sending initial
access messages for load control reasons.

Unified Access Control does not apply to IAB-MTs.

### 5.3.1 Cell status and cell reservations

Cell status and cell reservations are indicated in the *MIB or SIB1*
message as specified in TS 38.331 \[3\] by means of following fields:

\- ***cellBarred*** (IE type: \"barred\" or \"not barred\")\
Indicated in *MIB* message. In case of multiple PLMNs or NPNs indicated
in *SIB1*, this field is common for all PLMNs and NPNs

\- ***cellReservedForOperatorUse*** (IE type: \"reserved\" or \"not
reserved\")\
Indicated in *SIB1* message*.* In case of multiple PLMNs or NPNs
indicated in *SIB1*, this field is specified per PLMN or per SNPN.

\- ***cellReservedForOtherUse*** (IE type: \"true\")\
Indicated in *SIB1* message. In case of multiple PLMNs indicated in
*SIB1*, this field is common for all PLMNs.

***- cellReservedForFutureUse*** (IE type: \"true\")\
Indicated in *SIB1* message. In case of multiple PLMNs or NPNs indicated
in *SIB1*, this field is common for all PLMNs and NPNs.

NOTE 0: IAB-MT ignores the ***cellBarred*, *cellReservedForOperatorUse,
cellReservedForFutureUse* and** *intraFreqReselection* **(i.e. treats
*intraFreqReselection* as if it was set to *allowed*) as defined in** TS
38.331 \[3\]. IAB-MT also **ignores *cellReservedForOtherUse* for cell
barring determination (i.e. NPN capable IAB-MT considers
*cellReservedForOtherUse* for determination of an NPN-only cell) as
defined in** TS 38.331 \[3\].

\- ***iab-Support*** (IE type: \"true\")\
Indicated in *SIB1* message. In case of multiple PLMNs or NPNs indicated
in *SIB1*, this field is specified per PLMN or per SNPN.

When cell status is indicated as \"not barred\" and \"not reserved\" for
operator use and not \"true\" for other use and not \"true\" for future
use,

\- All UEs shall treat this cell as candidate during the cell selection
and cell reselection procedures.

When cell broadcasts any CAG-IDs or NIDs and the cell status is
indicated as \"not barred\" and \"not reserved\" for operator use and
\"true\" for other use, and not \"true\" for future use:

\- All NPN-capable UEs shall treat this cell as candidate during the
cell selection and cell reselection procedures, other UEs shall treat
this cell as if cell status is \"barred\".

When cell status is indicated as \"true\" for other use, and either cell
does not broadcast any CAG-IDs or NIDs or does not broadcast any CAG-IDs
and the UE is not operating in SNPN Access Mode,

\- The UE ***shall treat this cell as if cell status is \"barred\"***.

When cell status is indicated as \"true\" for future use,

\- The UE shall treat this cell as if cell status is \"barred\".

When cell status is indicated as \"not barred\" and \"reserved\" for
operator use for any PLMN/SNPN and not \"true\" for other use and not
\"true\" for future use,

\- UEs assigned to Access Identity 11 or 15 operating in their
HPLMN/EHPLMN shall treat this cell as candidate during the cell
selection and reselection procedures if the field
***cellReservedForOperatorUse for that PLMN set to \"reserved\".***

\- UEs assigned to Access Identity 11 or 15 shall treat this cell as
candidate during the cell selection and reselection procedures if the
field ***cellReservedForOperatorUse for*** selected/registered SNPN
***is set to \"reserved\".***

***- UEs assigned to an*** Access Identity ***0, 1, 2 and 12 to 14 shall
behave as if the cell status is \"barred\" in case the cell is
\"reserved for operator use\" for the registered PLMN/SNPN or the
selected PLMN/SNPN.***

NOTE 1: Access Identities 11, 15 are only valid for use in the HPLMN/
EHPLMN and registered/selected SNPN; Access Identities 12, 13, 14 are
only valid for use in the home country and registered/selected SNPN as
specified in TS 22.261 \[12\].

When cell status \"barred\" is indicated or to be treated as if the cell
status is \"barred\",

\- The UE is not permitted to select/reselect this cell, not even for
emergency calls.

\- The UE shall select another cell according to the following rule:

\- If the cell is to be treated as if the cell status is \"barred\" due
to being unable to acquire the *MIB*:

\- the UE may exclude the barred cell as a candidate for cell
selection/reselection for up to 300 seconds.

\- the UE may select another cell on the same frequency if the selection
criteria are fulfilled.

\- else:

\- If the field *intraFreqReselection* in *MIB* message is set to
\"allowed\":

\- the UE may select another cell on the same frequency if re-selection
criteria are fulfilled;

\- If the cell is to be treated as if the cell status is \"barred\" due
to being unable to acquire the *SIB1*:

\- the UE may exclude the barred cell as a candidate for cell
selection/reselection for up to 300 seconds;

\- else:

\- the UE shall exclude the barred cell as a candidate for cell
selection/reselection for 300 seconds.

\- If the field *intraFreqReselection* in *MIB* message is set to \"not
allowed\":

\- If the cell is to be treated as if the cell status is \"barred\" due
to being unable to acquire the *SIB1*:

\- the UE may exclude the barred cell as a candidate for cell
selection/reselection for up to 300 seconds;

\- If the cell operates in licensed spectrum:

\- the UE shall not re-select to another cell on the same frequency as
the barred cell and exclude such cell(s) as candidate(s) for cell
selection/reselection for 300 seconds;

\- else:

\- the UE may select to another cell on the same frequency if the
reselection criteria are fulfilled.

\- else:

\- If the cell operates in licensed spectrum, or if this cell belongs to
a PLMN which is indicated as being equivalent to the registered PLMN or
the selected PLMN of the UE, or if this cell belongs to the registered
SNPN or the selected SNPN of the UE:

\- the UE shall not re-select to another cell on the same frequency as
the barred cell and exclude such cell(s) as candidate(s) for cell
selection/reselection for 300 second**s**;

\- else:

\- the UE may select to another cell on the same frequency if the
reselection criteria are fulfilled.

\- the UE shall exclude the barred cell as a candidate for cell
selection/reselection for 300 seconds.

The cell selection of another cell may also include a change of RAT.

NOTE 2: If barring of a cell is triggered by the condition of
*trackingAreaCode* not being provided, as specified in TS 38.331 \[3\],
the barring only applies to this PLMN and the UE can re-evaluate the
barring condition again due to selection of another PLMN*.*

### 5.3.2 Unified access control

The information on cell access restrictions associated with Access
Categories and Identities is broadcast in *SIB1* as part of Unified
Access Control as specified in TS 38.331 \[3\].

The UE shall ignore Access Category and Identity related cell access
restrictions for cell reselection. A change of the indicated access
restriction shall not trigger cell reselection by the UE.

The UE shall consider Access Category and Identity related cell access
restrictions for NAS initiated access attempts and RNAU as specified in
TS 38.331 \[3\].

5.4 Tracking Area registration
------------------------------

In the UE, the AS shall report tracking area information to the NAS.

If the UE reads more than one PLMN identity in the current cell, the UE
shall report the found PLMN identities that make the cell suitable in
the tracking area information to NAS.

If the UE operating in SNPN access mode reads more than one SNPN
identity in the current cell, the UE shall report the found SNPN
identities that make the cell suitable in the tracking area information
to NAS.

The NAS part of the location registration process is specified in TS
23.122 \[9\].

5.5 RAN Area registration
-------------------------

The UE performs a RAN-based notification area update (RNAU) periodically
or when the UE selects a cell that does not belong to the configured
RNA.

6 Reception of broadcast information
====================================

6.1 Reception of system information
-----------------------------------

The NAS is informed if the cell selection and reselection results in
changes in the received NAS system information.

The UE shall monitor the Paging Occasions (POs) as described in clause
7.1 to receive System Information change notifications in RRC\_IDLE and
RRC\_INACTIVE. The changes in the system information are notified by the
network using a Short Message as specified in TS 38.331 \[3\]. When the
Short Message notifies system information changes, then the UE shall
acquire or re-acquire the concerned system information as specified in
TS 38.331 \[3\].

7 Paging
========

7.1 Discontinuous Reception for paging
--------------------------------------

The UE may use Discontinuous Reception (DRX) in RRC\_IDLE and
RRC\_INACTIVE state in order to reduce power consumption. The UE
monitors one paging occasion (PO) per DRX cycle. A PO is a set of PDCCH
monitoring occasions and can consist of multiple time slots (e.g.
subframe or OFDM symbol) where paging DCI can be sent (TS 38.213 \[4\]).
One Paging Frame (PF) is one Radio Frame and may contain one or multiple
PO(s) or starting point of a PO.

In multi-beam operations, the UE assumes that the same paging message
and the same Short Message are repeated in all transmitted beams and
thus the selection of the beam(s) for the reception of the paging
message and Short Message is up to UE implementation. The paging message
is same for both RAN initiated paging and CN initiated paging.

The UE initiates RRC Connection Resume procedure upon receiving RAN
initiated paging. If the UE receives a CN initiated paging in
RRC\_INACTIVE state, the UE moves to RRC\_IDLE and informs NAS.

The PF and PO for paging are determined by the following formulae:

SFN for the PF is determined by:

(SFN + PF\_offset) mod T = (T div N)\*(UE\_ID mod N)

Index (i\_s), indicating the index of the PO is determined by:

i\_s = floor (UE\_ID/N) mod Ns

The PDCCH monitoring occasions for paging are determined according to
*pagingSearchSpace* as specified in TS 38.213 \[4\] and
*firstPDCCH-MonitoringOccasionOfPO* and
*nrofPDCCH-MonitoringOccasionPerSSB-InPO* if configured as specified in
TS 38.331 \[3\]. When *SearchSpaceId* = 0 is configured for
*pagingSearchSpace*, the PDCCH monitoring occasions for paging are same
as for RMSI as defined in clause 13 in TS 38.213 \[4\].

When *SearchSpaceId* = 0 is configured for *pagingSearchSpace***, Ns is
either 1 or 2. For Ns = 1, there is only one PO which starts from the
first PDCCH monitoring occasion for paging in the PF. For Ns = 2, PO is
either in the first half frame (i\_s = 0) or the second half frame (i\_s
= 1) of the PF.**

When *SearchSpaceId* other than 0 is configured for *pagingSearchSpace,*
the UE monitors the (i\_s + 1)^th^ PO. A PO is a set of \'S\*X \'
consecutive PDCCH monitoring occasions where \'S\' is the number of
actual transmitted SSBs determined according to *ssb-PositionsInBurst*
in *SIB1* and X is the *nrofPDCCH-MonitoringOccasionPerSSB-InPO* if
configured or is equal to 1 otherwise. The \[x\*S+K\]^th^ PDCCH
monitoring occasion for paging in the PO corresponds to the K^th^
transmitted SSB, where x=0,1,...,X-1, K=1,2,...,S. The PDCCH monitoring
occasions for paging which do not overlap with UL symbols (determined
according to *tdd-UL-DL-ConfigurationCommon*) are sequentially numbered
from zero starting from the first PDCCH monitoring occasion for paging
in the PF. When *firstPDCCH-MonitoringOccasionOfPO* is present, the
starting PDCCH monitoring occasion number of (i\_s + 1)^th^ PO is the
(i\_s + 1)^th^ value of the *firstPDCCH-MonitoringOccasionOfPO*
parameter; otherwise, it is equal to i\_s \* S\*X. If X \> 1, when the
UE detects a PDCCH transmission addressed to P-RNTI within its PO, the
UE is not required to monitor the subsequent PDCCH monitoring occasions
for this PO.

NOTE 1: A PO associated with a PF may start in the PF or after the PF.

NOTE 2: The PDCCH monitoring occasions for a PO can span multiple radio
frames. When *SearchSpaceId* other than 0 is configured for
*paging-SearchSpace* the PDCCH monitoring occasions for a PO can span
multiple periods of the paging search space.

The following parameters are used for the calculation of PF and i\_s
above:

**T: DRX cycle of the UE (**T is determined by the shortest of the UE
specific DRX value(s), if configured by RRC and/or upper layers, and a
default DRX value broadcast in system information. In RRC\_IDLE state,
if UE specific DRX is not configured by upper layers, the default value
is applied).

**N: number of total paging frames in T**

Ns: number of paging **occasions** for a PF

PF\_offset: offset used for PF determination

**UE\_ID: 5G-S-TMSI mod 1024**

Parameters *Ns*, *nAndPagingFrameOffset*,
*nrofPDCCH-MonitoringOccasionPerSSB-InPO*, and the length of default DRX
Cycle are signaled in *SIB1*. The values of N and PF\_offset are derived
from the parameter *nAndPagingFrameOffset* as defined in TS 38.331
\[3\]. The parameter *first-PDCCH-MonitoringOccasionOfPO* is signalled
in *SIB1* for paging in initial DL BWP. For paging in a DL BWP other
than the initial DL BWP, the parameter
*first-PDCCH-MonitoringOccasionOfPO* is signaled in the corresponding
BWP configuration.

If the UE has no 5G-S-TMSI, for instance when the UE has not yet
registered onto the network, the UE shall use as default identity UE\_ID
= 0 in the PF and i\_s formulas above.

5G-S-TMSI is a 48 bit long bit string as defined in TS 23.501 \[10\].
5G-S-TMSI shall in the formulae above be interpreted as a binary number
where the left most bit represents the most significant bit.

8 Sidelink Operation
====================

8.1 NR sidelink communication and V2X sidelink communication
------------------------------------------------------------

The UE may transmit or receive NR sidelink communication if it fulfils
the condition(s) defined in TS 38.331 \[3\], clause 5.8.2. When UE is
in-coverage for sidelink operation as defined in clause 8.2, the UE may
perform NR sidelink communication according to *SIB12,* and when
out-of-coverage for sidelink, the UE may perform NR sidelink
communication according to *SL-PreconfigurationNR* or according to
*SIB12* of the cell on the frequency which provides inter-carrier NR
sidelink configuration, as specified in TS 38.331 \[3\]. The UE shall
not perform NR sidelink communication according to
*SL-PreconfigurationNR* if the UE detects a cell providing NR sidelink
configuration or inter-carrier NR sidelink configuration for the
frequency UE is interested to perform NR sidelink communication on.

The UE may transmit or receive V2X sidelink communication if it fulfills
the condition(s) defined in TS 36.331\[6\], clause 5.10.1d. When UE is
in-coverage for sidelink operation as defined in clause 8.2, the UE may
perform V2X sidelink communication according to *SIB13/SIB14* of the
cell on an NR frequency.

8.2 Cell selection and reselection for Sidelink
-----------------------------------------------

The requirements defined in this clause for sidelink operation apply for
UEs in RRC\_IDLE, RRC\_INACTIVE and in RRC\_CONNECTED.

When UE is interested to perform NR sidelink communication on
non-serving frequency, it may perform measurements on that frequency or
the frequencies which can provide inter carrier NR sidelink
configuration for that frequency for cell selection and reselection
purpose in accordance with TS 38.133\[8\]. When UE is interested to
perform V2X sidelink communication on non-serving frequency, it may
perform measurements on that frequency or the frequencies which can
provide inter carrier V2X sidelink configuration for that frequency for
cell selection and intra-frequency reselection purpose in accordance
with TS 38.133\[8\].

If the UE detects at least one cell on the frequency which UE is
configured to perform NR sidelink communication on fulfilling the S
criterion in accordance with clause 8.2.1, it shall consider itself to
be in-coverage for NR sidelink communication on that frequency. If the
UE cannot detect any cell on that frequency meeting the S criterion, it
shall consider itself to be out-of-coverage for NR sidelink
communication on that frequency.

If the UE detects at least one cell on the frequency which UE is
configured to perform V2X sidelink communication on fulfilling the S
criterion in accordance with clause 8.2.1, it shall consider itself to
be in-coverage for V2X sidelink communication on that frequency. If the
UE cannot detect any cell on that frequency meeting the S criterion, it
shall consider itself to be out-of-coverage for V2X sidelink
communication on that frequency.

If the UE has selected a cell on a non-serving frequency for V2X
sidelink communication, it shall perform additional intra-frequency
reselection process to select a better cell for sidelink operation on
that frequency in accordance with clause 8.2.1.

If the UE has selected a cell on a non-serving frequency for NR sidelink
communication, it shall perform additional reselection process to select
a better cell for sidelink operation in accordance with clause 8.2.1.

### 8.2.1 Parameters used for cell selection and reselection triggered for sidelink

When evaluating S criterion, R criterion (ranking) or inter-frequency
cell reselection criterion, as defined in clause 5.2.3.2, clause 5.2.4.6
and clause 5.2.4.5 respectively, for cell selection/reselection
triggered for NR sidelink communication or V2X sidelink communication on
a non-serving frequency, UE shall perform the evaluation as follows:

\- The UE shall use cell selection/reselection parameters broadcast by
the concerned cell (i.e. selected cell for the sidelink operation) for
the evaluation.

########  Annex A (informative): Change history

  -------------------- -------------- ---------------- ------ ----- ----- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                                             
  Date                 Meeting        TDoc             CR     Rev   Cat   Subject/Comment                                                                                        New version
  3/2017                                                                  Initial skeleton                                                                                       0.0.1
  5/2017                                                                  Updated initial skeleton                                                                               0.0.2
  6/2017                                                                  Updated based on RAN2\#98 agreements                                                                   0.0.3
  8/2017                                                                  Updated based on feedback from companies                                                               0.0.4
  10/2017                                                                 No changes                                                                                             0.0.5
  11/2017                                                                 No changes                                                                                             0.0.6
  01/2018                                                                 No changes                                                                                             0.0.7
  01/2018                                                                 No changes                                                                                             0.1.0
  02/2018                                                                 Updated based on RAN-NR-AH1801 agreements                                                              0.1.1
  02/2018                                                                 No changes                                                                                             0.1.2
  03/2018                                                                 Updated based on RAN\#101 agreements                                                                   0.2.0
  03/2018              RAN\#79        RP-180451                           Typo corrections; submitted to RAN\#79 for information                                                 1.0.0
  04/2018              RAN2\#101bis   **R2-1805086**                      No changes                                                                                             1.0.1
  05/2018              RAN2\#102      **R2-1806884**                      Updated based on RAN2\#101bis agreements                                                               1.1.0
  06/2018                             **R2-1809262**                      Updated based on RAN2\#102 agreements                                                                  1.2.0
  06/2018              RP\#80         **RP-180694**                       Submitted to RAN\#80 for approval                                                                      2.0.0
  06/2018                                                                 Upgraded to Rel-15 after the plenary approval                                                          15.0.0
  09/2018              RP-81          **RP-181941**    0024   2     F     Miscellaneous Corrections based on endorsed CRs in RAN2\#103                                           15.1.0
  12/2018              RP-82          R2-1818509       0047   4     F     Clarification of Paging Monitoring Occasion                                                            15.2.0
                       RP-82          R2-1816301       0049   2     F     Correction to description of PO for default association                                                15.2.0
                       RP-82          R2-1819196       0051   3     F     Corrections on 38.304                                                                                  15.2.0
                       RP-82          R2-1816678       0055   2     F     CR on PDCCH monitoring occasions for paging                                                            15.2.0
                       RP-82          R2-1817200       0056   2     F     Release and Redirect in 2-step procedure                                                               15.2.0
                       RP-82          R2-1818681       0062   4     F     Clarification on final suitability check                                                               15.2.0
                       RP-82          R2-1817261       0063   2     D     Correction to Ambiguous Terminologies with respect to Cell Ranking                                     15.2.0
                       RP-82          R2-1818125       0066   2     F     Correction on definition of PEMAX1, PEMAX2                                                             15.2.0
                       RP-82          R2-1817662       0067   2     F     Clarification of mobility state detection criteria                                                     15.2.0
                       RP-82          R2-1818549       0074   2     F     CR on UE behaviour upon lack of TAC in SIB1                                                            15.2.0
                       RP-82          R2-1818508       0075   1     F     Miscellaneous Corrections in Paging                                                                    15.2.0
                       RP-82          R2-1819037       0076   1     F     Clarification for the UE behaviour in camped normally and camped on any cell states                    15.2.0
                       RP-82          R2-1818883       0079   2     F     Corrections on storing and discarding UE AS context                                                    15.2.0
                       RP-82          R2-1818998       0084   2     F     Correction to UE behavior for barred cell                                                              15.2.0
                       RP-82          R2-1817141       0087   \-    F     Clarification on cell reselection conditions during TreselectionRAT                                    15.2.0
                       RP-82          R2-1818881       0088   2     F     Introduction of MICO mode                                                                              15.2.0
                       RP-82          R2-1817145       0089   \-    F     Correction to monitoring paging in Camped on Any Cell state                                            15.2.0
                       RP-82          R2-1818878       0090   1     F     Minor clarifications for paging                                                                        15.2.0
                       RP-82          R2-1818688       0096   1     F     Correction to cell access barring alleviation in cell reselection                                      15.2.0
                       RP-82          R2-1818683       0097   1     F     CR on 38.304 corrections                                                                               15.2.0
                       RP-82          R2-1817738       0099   \-    F     38.304 CR on derivation of N for paging                                                                15.2.0
                       RP-82          R2-1819026       0102   1     F     Correction of PLMN selection in RRC\_INACTIVE                                                          15.2.0
  03/2019              RP-83          RP-190540        0081   4     F     CR on UE behavior if emergency call is not supported in the current cell                               15.3.0
                       RP-83          RP-190540        0103   2     F     Correction to number of radio frames spanned by PDCCH monitoring occasions of a PO                     15.3.0
                       RP-83          RP-190540        0104   1     F     Correction to signaling aspects of parameter first-PDCCH-MonitoringOccasionOfPO                        15.3.0
                       RP-83          RP-190540        0111   \-    F     Clarification for paging and UL symbols                                                                15.3.0
                       RP-83          RP-190544        0113   3     F     Miscellaneous Corrections                                                                              15.3.0
                       RP-83          RP-190544        0117   1     F     Correction on exception to cell categories for regional provision of service                           15.3.0
  06/2019              RP-84          RP-191373        0120   \-    F     UE behavior on cell reselection if rangeToBestCell is configured\_Option 2                             15.4.0
                       RP-84          RP-191373        0121   \-    F     Miscellaneous Corrections                                                                              15.4.0
                       RP-84          RP-191374        0125   \-    F     CR on inter-RAT cell reselection                                                                       15.4.0
                       RP-84          RP-191376        0126   1     F     UE behaviour on the cell without TAC                                                                   15.4.0
                       RP-84          RP-191376        0128   1     F     Correction for Access Identity 0 when PLMN is reserved for operator use                                15.4.0
                       RP-84          RP-191376        0132   1     F     Monitoring of short messages with multi-beams                                                          15.4.0
  09/2019              RP-85          RP-192193        0136   2     F     Miscellaneous Corrections                                                                              15.5.0
  12/2019              RP-86          RP-192936        0139   2     F     Miscellaneous Corrections                                                                              15.6.0
                       RP-86          RP-192938        0143   1     F     Correction to Pcompensation for FR2                                                                    15.6.0
  03/2020              RP-87          RP-200344        0145   4     B     Introduction of UE Power Saving in NR                                                                  16.0.0
                       RP-87          RP-200353        0148   2     B     Introduction of PRN for TS 38.304                                                                      16.0.0
                       RP-87          RP-200341        0149   2     B     Introduction of NR operation with Shared Spectrum Access in Idle/Inactive mode                         16.0.0
                       RP-87          RP-200349        0150   3     B     Correction of TS 38.304 to introduce IAB                                                               16.0.0
                       RP-87          RP-200346        0151   1     B     CR on cell selection/ reselection for NR V2X UE                                                        16.0.0
  07/2020              RP-88          RP-201179        0153   4     F     Miscellaneous correction to 38.304 for IAB                                                             16.1.0
                       RP-88          RP-201165        0155   4     A     Corrections to cell barred handling                                                                    16.1.0
                       RP-88          RP-201182        0156   3     F     Corrrection to 38.304 for PRN                                                                          16.1.0
                       RP-88          RP-201179        0157   4     B     Corrections to 38.304 for supporting IAB in NPN                                                        16.1.0
                       RP-88          RP-201174        0158   1     B     CR for UE Power Saving in NR                                                                           16.1.0
                       RP-88          RP-201190        0173   \-    C     Introduction of eCall over IMS for NR                                                                  16.1.0
                       RP-88          RP-201176        0174   2     F     CR on cell (re)selection for sidelink in TS 38.304                                                     16.1.0
  09/2020              RP-89          RP-201927        0175   1     F     Correction to TS 38.304                                                                                16.2.0
                       RP-89          RP-201932        0184   1     D     Miscellaneous corrections (Rapporteur)                                                                 16.2.0
                       RP-89          RP-201923        0185   \-    F     Miscellaneous corrections for TS 38.304 for IAB                                                        16.2.0
                       RP-89          RP-201929        0186   1     F     CR for UE Power Saving in NR                                                                           16.2.0
                       RP-89          RP-201928        0187   \-    F     Idle mode corrections for NPN                                                                          16.2.0
  12/2020              RP-90          RP-202776        0193   1     F     Correction on RRM relaxation                                                                           16.3.0
                       RP-90          RP-202771        0195   \-    F     Miscellaneous Corrections                                                                              16.3.0
                       RP-90          RP-202769        0196   \-    F     Correction on inter-frequency operation                                                                16.3.0
  03/2021              RP-91          RP-210689        0203   \-    F     Correction to 38.304 on intra-frequency reselection                                                    16.4.0
  06/2021              RP-92          RP-211471        0206   1     F     CR on the missing definition of \"Available SNPN\" in TS 38.304                                        16.5.0
                       RP-92          RP-211475        0211   2     F     Correction of IFRI-related conditions                                                                  16.5.0
  09/2021              RP-93          RP-212442        0215   1     F     Clarification of access restrictions during cell re-selection                                          16.6.0
                       RP-93          RP-212439        0217   1     A     Clarification of barring when TAC is missing in RAN sharing                                            16.6.0
                       RP-93          RP-212438        0220   \-    A     Correction to cell selection and reselection due to SIB1 acquisition failure                           16.6.0
  12/2021              RP-94          RP-213343        0222   \-    F     Correction for TS 38.304 on power class for cell selection of IAB                                      16.7.0
  06/2022              RP-96          RP-221727        0247   1     F     Addressing inconsistency for RRM measurement rules                                                     16.8.0
                       RP-96          RP-221714        0250   1     D     Miscellaneous Editorial Corrections                                                                    16.8.0
  03/2023              RP-99          RP-230686        0327   \-    F     Clarification on cell reselection priority handling for V2X/NR sidelink and deprioritization request   16.9.0
  06/2023              RP-100         RP-231410        0340   \-    F     Correction on TS 38.304 for NR SL                                                                      16.10.0
                       RP-100         RP-231411        0347   1     F     Clarification on Access Identities Validity                                                            16.10.0
  -------------------- -------------- ---------------- ------ ----- ----- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------
