![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[6](#abbreviations)

[6](#general-aspects)

[6](#e1-interface-general-principles)

[6](#e1-interface-specification-objectives)

[6](#functions-of-the-e1-interface)

[6](#general)

[6](#e1-interface-management-function)

[7](#e1-bearer-context-management-function)

[8](#trace-function)

[8](#load-management-function)

[8](#measurement-results-transfer-function)

[8](#support-for-iab)

[8](#teids-allocation)

[8](#procedures-of-the-e1-interface)

[8](#interface-management-procedures)

[8](#bearer-context-management-procedures)

[9](#ue-tracing-procedures)

[9](#load-management-procedures)

[9](#measurement-results-transfer-procedures)

[9](#iab-procedures)

[9](#e1-interface-protocol-structure)

[10](#other-e1-interface-specifications)

[10](#ng-ran-e1-interface-layer-1-3gpp-ts-38.461)

[10](#ng-ran-e1-interface-signalling-transport-3gpp-ts-38.462)

[10](#ng-ran-e1-interface-e1ap-specification-3gpp-ts-38.463)

[11](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.3 Abbreviations 4
General aspects 4.1 E1 interface general principles 4.2 E1 interface
specification objectives 5 Functions of the E1 interface 5.1 General
5.1.1 E1 interface management function 5.1.2 E1 bearer context
management function 5.1.3 Trace function 5.1.4 Load management function
5.1.5 Measurement results transfer function 5.1.6 Support for IAB 5.2
TEIDs allocation 6 Procedures of the E1 interface 6.1 Interface
Management procedures 6.2 Bearer Context Management procedures 6.3 UE
Tracing procedures 6.4 Load management procedures 6.5 Measurement
results transfer procedures 6.6 IAB procedures 7 E1 interface protocol
structure 8 Other E1 interface specifications 8.1 NG-RAN E1 interface:
layer 1 (3GPP TS 38.461) 8.2 NG-RAN E1 interface: signalling transport
(3GPP TS 38.462) 8.3 NG-RAN E1 interface: E1AP specification (3GPP
TS 38.463) Annex A (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document is an introduction to the 3GPP TS 38.46x series of
technical specifications that define the E1 interface. The E1 interface
provides means for interconnecting a gNB-CU-CP and a gNB-CU-UP of a
gNB-CU within an NG-RAN, or for interconnecting a gNB-CU-CP and a
gNB-CU-UP of an en-gNB within an E-UTRAN.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 38.401: \"NG-RAN; Architecture Description\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 38.461: \"NG-RAN; E1 layer 1\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 38.462: \"NG-RAN; E1 signalling transport\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 38.463: \"NG-RAN; E1 Application Protocol (E1AP)\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; Overall description; Stage-2\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 37.340: \"NR; Multi-connectivity; Overall description;
Stage-2\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

**en-gNB**: as defined in TS 37.340 \[7\]

**gNB-CU**: as defined in TS 38.401 \[2\]

**gNB-CU-CP**: as defined in TS 38.401 \[2\]

**gNB-CU-UP**: as defined in TS 38.401 \[2\]

**gNB-DU**: as defined in TS 38.401 \[2\]

**gNB**: as defined in TS 38.300 \[6\]

**IAB**: as defined in TS 38.300 \[6\].

3.3 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

DL Downlink

DRB Data Radio Bearer

E1AP E1 Application Protocol

IP Internet Protocol

SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol

TNL Transport Network Layer

4 General aspects
=================

This clause captures the E1 interface principles and characteristics.

4.1 E1 interface general principles
-----------------------------------

The general principles for the specification of the E1 interface are as
follows:

\- the E1 interface is open;

\- the E1 interface supports the exchange of signalling information
between the endpoints;

\- from a logical standpoint, the E1 is a point-to-point interface
between a gNB-CU-CP and a gNB-CU-UP.

NOTE 1: A point-to-point logical interface should be feasible even in
the absence of a physical direct connection between the endpoints.

\- the E1 interface separates Radio Network Layer and Transport Network
Layer;

\- the E1 interface enables exchange of UE associated information and
non-UE associated information;

\- the E1 interface is future proof to fulfil different new
requirements, support of new services and new functions.

NOTE 2: The E1 interface is a control interface and is not used for user
data forwarding.

4.2 E1 interface specification objectives
-----------------------------------------

The E1 interface specifications facilitate the following:

\- inter-connection of a gNB-CU-CP and a gNB-CU-UP supplied by different
manufacturers.

5 Functions of the E1 interface
===============================

5.1 General
-----------

The following clauses describe the functions supported over E1.

### 5.1.1 E1 interface management function

The error indication function is used by the gNB-CU-UP or gNB-CU-CP to
indicate to the gNB-CU-CP or gNB-CU-UP that an error has occurred.

The reset function is used to initialize the peer entity after node
setup and after a failure event occurred. This procedure can be used by
both the gNB-CU-UP and the gNB-CU-CP.

The E1 setup function allows to exchange application level data needed
for the gNB-CU-UP and gNB-CU-CP to interoperate correctly on the E1
interface. The E1 setup is initiated by both the gNB-CU-UP and
gNB-CU-CP.

The gNB-CU-UP Configuration Update and gNB-CU-CP Configuration Update
functions allow to update application level configuration data needed
between the gNB-CU-CP and the gNB-CU-UP to interoperate correctly over
the E1 interface.

The E1 setup and gNB-CU-UP Configuration Update functions allow to
inform NR CGI(s), S-NSSAI(s), PLMN-ID(s), QoS information and NID(s)
supported by the gNB-CU-UP.

The E1 setup and gNB-CU-UP Configuration Update functions allow the
gNB-CU-UP to signal its capacity information to the gNB-CU-CP.

The E1 gNB-CU-UP Status Indication function allows to inform the
overloaded or non-overloaded status over the E1 interface.

### 5.1.2 E1 bearer context management function

The establishment of the E1 bearer context is initiated by the gNB-CU-CP
and accepted or rejected by the gNB-CU-UP based on admission control
criteria (e.g., resource not available).

The modification of the E1 bearer context can be initiated by either
gNB-CU-CP or gNB-CU-UP. The receiving node can accept or reject the
modification. The E1 bearer context management function also supports
the release of the bearer context previously established in the
gNB-CU-UP. The release of the bearer context is triggered by the
gNB-CU-CP either directly or following a request received from the
gNB-CU-UP.

This function is used to setup and modify the QoS-flow to DRB mapping
configuration. The gNB-CU-CP decides flow-to-DRB mapping and provides
the generated SDAP and PDCP configuration to the gNB-CU-UP. The
gNB-CU-CP also decides the Reflective QoS flow to DRB mapping. The
function is also used to send to the gNB-CU-UP the alternative QoS
Parameters Sets when available for a QoS flow. For each PDU Session
Resource to be setup or modified, the S-NSSAI, shall be provided in the
E1 bearer context setup procedure and may be provided in the E1 bearer
context modification procedure by gNB-CU-CP to the gNB-CU-UP.

This function is used for the gNB-CU-CP to send the security information
to the gNB-CU-UP.

This function is used for the gNB-CU-CP to send to the gNB-CU-UP
transport layer information to be used for data forwarding e.g. during
handovers.

This function is used for the gNB-CU-CP to send the parameters for
header compression for certain traffic types e.g. IP, Ethernet to the
gNB-CU-UP.

This function is used for the gNB-CU-UP to notify the event of DL data
arrival detection to the gNB-CU-CP. With this function, the gNB-CU-UP
requests gNB-CU-CP to trigger paging procedure over F1 or Xn to support
RRC Inactive state.

This function is used for the gNB-CU-UP to notify the gNB-CU-CP that a
DL packet including a QFI value not configured by the gNB-CU-CP or an UL
packet including a QFI value in the SDAP header of the default DRB not
configured by the gNB-CU-CP is received for the first time. The
gNB-CU-CP can take further action if needed.

This function is used for the gNB-CU-UP to notify the event of user
inactivity to the gNB-CU-CP. With this function, the gNB-CU-UP indicates
that the inactivity timer associated with a bearer, a PDU session or a
UE expires, or that user data is received for the bearer, the PDU
session or the UE whose inactivity timer has expired. The gNB-CU-CP
consolidates all the serving gNB-CU-UPs for the UE and takes further
action.

This function is used for the gNB-CU-UP to report data volume to the
gNB-CU-CP.

This function is used for the gNB-CU-CP to notify the suspension and
resumption of bearer contexts to the gNB-CU-UP.

This function also allows to support CA based packet duplication as
described in TS 38.300 \[6\], i.e. one data radio bearer should be
configured with at least two GTP-U tunnels between gNB-CU-UP and a
gNB-DU.

This function is used to support the enhanced mobility operations as
described in TS 38.300 \[6\] in the gNB-CU-UP.

### 5.1.3 Trace function

The Trace function provides means to control trace sessions for a UE
over E1 interface.

### 5.1.4 Load management function

The load management function allows an gNB-CU-CP to request the
reporting of load measurements to gNB-DU and is used by gNB-CU-UP to
report the result of measurements admitted by gNB-CU-UP.

### 5.1.5 Measurement results transfer function

The measurement results transfer is used by the gNB-CU-CP to transfer UE
associated measurement results to the gNB-CU-UP.

### 5.1.6 Support for IAB

This function is used to update the DL/UL F1-U GTP-U tunnels for an IAB
network, and allow the gNB-CU-CP to send the security key info to the
gNB-CU-UP for the protection of the F1-U interface with IAB-DU.

5.2 TEIDs allocation
--------------------

The gNB-CU-UP is responsible for the allocation of the F1-U UL GTP TEID
for each data radio bearer.

The gNB-CU-UP is responsible for the allocation of the S1-U DL GTP TEID
for each E-RAB and the NG-U DL GTP TEID for each PDU Session.

The gNB-CU-UP is responsible for the allocation of the X2-U DL/UL GTP
TEID or the Xn-U DL/UL GTP TEID for each data radio bearer.

6 Procedures of the E1 interface
================================

6.1 Interface Management procedures
-----------------------------------

The E1 interface management procedures are listed below:

\- Reset procedure

\- Error Indication procedure

\- gNB-CU-UP E1 Setup procedure

\- gNB-CU-CP E1 Setup procedure

\- gNB-CU-UP Configuration Update procedure

\- gNB-CU-CP Configuration Update procedure

\- E1 Release procedure

\- gNB-CU-UP Status Indication procedure

6.2 Bearer Context Management procedures
----------------------------------------

The E1 bearer management procedures are listed below:

\- Bearer Context Setup procedure

\- Bearer Context Release Request (gNB-CU-UP initiated) procedure

\- Bearer Context Release (gNB-CU-CP initiated) procedure

\- Bearer Context Modification (gNB-CU-CP initiated) procedure

\- Bearer Context Modification Required (gNB-CU-UP initiated) procedure

\- DL Data Notification procedure

\- Bearer Context Inactivity Notification procedure

\- Data Usage Report procedure

\- MR-DC Data Usage Report procedure

6.3 UE Tracing procedures
-------------------------

The following procedures are used to trace the UE:

\- Trace Start procedure

\- Deactivate Trace procedure

\- Cell Traffic Trace procedure

6.4 Load management procedures
------------------------------

The load management procedures are listed as below:

\- Resource Status Reporting Initiation procedure

\- Resource Status Reporting procedure

6.5 Measurement results transfer procedures
-------------------------------------------

The measurement results transfer procedures are listed as below:

\- GNB-CU-CP Measurement Results Information

6.6 IAB procedures
------------------

The IAB procedures are listed as below:

\- IAB UP TNL Address Update procedure

\- IAB PSK Notification procedure

7 E1 interface protocol structure
=================================

Figure 7.1-1 shows the protocol structure for E1. The TNL is based on IP
transport, comprising the SCTP on top of IP. The application layer
signalling protocol is referred to as E1AP (E1 Application Protocol).

Figure 7.1-1: Interface protocol structure for E1

8 Other E1 interface specifications
===================================

This clause contains the description of the other related 3GPP
specifications.

8.1 NG-RAN E1 interface: layer 1 (3GPP TS 38.461)
-------------------------------------------------

3GPP TS 38.461 \[3\] specifies the physical layer technologies that may
be used to support the E1 interface.

8.2 NG-RAN E1 interface: signalling transport (3GPP TS 38.462)
--------------------------------------------------------------

3GPP TS 38.462 \[4\] specifies the signalling bearers for the E1AP for
the E1 interface.

8.3 NG-RAN E1 interface: E1AP specification (3GPP TS 38.463)
------------------------------------------------------------

3GPP TS 38.463 \[5\] specifies the E1AP protocol for radio network
control plane signalling over the E1 interface.

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                                                                                                                                                          **New version**
  2018-02              R3\#99        R3-181037   \-       \-        \-        Skeleton                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0.0
  2018-02              R3\#99        R3-181419   \-       \-        \-        Editorial changes                                                                                                                                                                            0.1.0
  2018-03              R3\#99        R3-181596                                Agreed text proposal R3-181425 on TEID allocation added to section 5.2; Agreed text proposal R3-181427 on Bearer Context management function and procedure added to section 5.1.2 and 6.2.   0.2.0
  2018-04              R3\#99bis     R3-181844   \-       \-        \-        gNB-CU-CP / gNB-CU-UP is agreed as a formal name                                                                                                                                             0.3.0
  2018-04              R3\#99bis     R3-182498   \-       \-        \-        E1 interface management function further detailed; gNB-CU-UP E1 Setup, gNB-CU-CP E1 Setup, gNB-CU-UP Configuration Update, gNB-CU-CP Configuration Update, E1 Release (FFS) introduced.      0.3.0
  2018-04              R3\#99bis     R3-182465   \-       \-        \-        Bearer Context Inactivity Notification Procedure introduced.                                                                                                                                 0.3.0
  2018-05              R3\#100       R3-183579                                E1 bearer context management function further updated by adding user inactivity notification, DL data arrival detection, data volume reporting and packet duplication.                       0.4.0
  2018-06              RAN\#80       RP-180746                                For approval                                                                                                                                                                                 1.0.0
  2018-06              RAN\#80                   \-       \-        \-        Specification approved at TSG-RAN and placed under change control                                                                                                                            15.0.0
  2018-09              RAN\#81       RP-181925   0001     4         F         NR Corrections (38.460 Baseline CR covering RAN3-101 agreements)                                                                                                                             15.1.0
  2018-12              RAN\#82       RP-182451   0005     1         F         CR to 38.460 on capacity information transfer via E1 interface                                                                                                                               15.2.0
  2018-12              RAN\#82       RP-182451   0006     1         F         CR to 38.460 on overload information indication over E1                                                                                                                                      15.2.0
  2018-12              RAN\#82       RP-182451   0012     1         F         CR to 38.460 on PDCP suspend indication over E1 interface                                                                                                                                    15.2.0
  2018-12              RAN\#82       RP-182451   0014     2         F         CR to 38.460 on notification for default DRB over E1                                                                                                                                         15.2.0
  2018-12              RAN\#82       RP-182447   0015     1         F         Introduction of Data Volume Reporting for MR-DC                                                                                                                                              15.2.0
  2019-03              RAN\#83       RP-190560   0017     1         F         CR to 38.460 on inactivity notification over E1                                                                                                                                              15.3.0
  2019-07              RAN\#84       RP-191399   0020     1         F         CR to 38.460 on clarifications for E1 bearer context management function and TEIDs allocation                                                                                                15.4.0
  2019-12              RAN\#86       RP-192913   0021     2         F         Trace function Support over E1 Interface                                                                                                                                                     16.0.0
  2020-07              RAN\#88-e     RP-201080   0029     5         B         CR to TS 38.460 on support of NPN                                                                                                                                                            16.1.0
  2020-07              RAN\#88-e     RP-201082   0031     3         B         BLCR to 38.460: Addition of SON feature                                                                                                                                                      16.1.0
  2020-07              RAN\#88-e     RP-201079   0034     2         B         Support of Ethernet Type                                                                                                                                                                     16.1.0
  2020-07              RAN\#88-e     RP-201075   0035     1         B         TS38.460 Stage2 Introduction of Mobility Enhancement Features                                                                                                                                16.1.0
  2020-07              RAN\#88-e     RP-201074   0036     1         B         Support for Alternative QoS profiles over E1                                                                                                                                                 16.1.0
  2020-07              RAN\#88-e     RP-201082   0038     1         B         BLCR to 38.460: Addition of MDT feature                                                                                                                                                      16.1.0
  2020-07              RAN\#88-e     RP-201079   0039     1         B         PDCP duplication with more than 2 entities for E1 stage 2                                                                                                                                    16.1.0
  2020-12              RAN\#90-e     RP-202312   0043     1         F         Introduction of D1 measurement transfer on E1AP                                                                                                                                              16.2.0
  2020-12              RAN\#90-e     RP-202312   0044               F         Support of direct data forwarding for inter-system HO                                                                                                                                        16.2.0
  2021-03              RAN\#91-e     RP-210231   0045     2         F         CR to 38.460: Supporting IAB function and procedure                                                                                                                                          16.3.0
  2021-12              RAN\#94-e     RP-212870   0049     2         F         CR for 38.460 on E1AP handling for unmapped DL QoS flows                                                                                                                                     16.4.0
  2022-03              RAN\#95-e     RP-220276   0053     1         F         Correction on support of Pre-shared key derivation for IAB-donor-CU-UP                                                                                                                       16.5.0
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
