![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[6](#abbreviations)

[6](#data-link-layer)

[6](#f1-interface-user-plane-protocol)

[6](#general)

[6](#gtp-u)

[6](#udpip)

[7](#diffserv-code-point-marking)

[8](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations 4 Data
Link Layer 5 F1 Interface user plane protocol 5.1 General 5.2 GTP-U 5.3
UDP/IP 5.4 Diffserv code point marking Annex A (informative): Change
history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the standards for user data transport
protocols and related signalling protocols to establish user plane
transport bearers over the F1 interface. The F1 interface provides means
for interconnecting a gNB-CU and a gNB-DU of a gNB within an NG-RAN, or
for interconnection a gNB-CU and a gNB-DU of an en-gNB within an
E-UTRAN.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 29.281: \"General Packet Radio System (GPRS) Tunnelling
Protocol User Plane (GTPv1-U)\".

\[3\] IETF RFC 768 (1980-08): \"User Datagram Protocol\".

\[4\] IETF RFC 2474 (1998-12): \"Definition of the Differentiated
Services Field (DS Field) in the Ipv4 and Ipv6 Headers\".

\[5\] IETF RFC 8200 (2017-07): \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (Ipv6)
Specification\".

\[6\] IETF RFC 791 (1981-09): \"Internet Protocol\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; Overall description; Stage-2\".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 38.401: \"NG-RAN; Architecture Description\".

\[9\] 3GPP TS 37.340: \"NR; Multi-connectivity; Overall description;
Stage-2\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

**en-gNB**: as defined in TS 37.340 \[9\].

**F1:** interface between a gNB-DU and a gNB-CU, providing an
interconnection point between the gNB-DU and the gNB-CU.

**gNB-CU**: as defined in TS 38.401 \[8\].

**gNB-DU**: as defined in TS 38.401 \[8\].

**gNB**: as defined in TS 38.300 \[7\].

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

GTP GPRS Tunnelling Protocol

IAB Integrated Access and Backhaul

IP Internet Protocol

TEID Tunnel Endpoint Identifier

UDP User Datagram Protocol

4 Data Link Layer
=================

Any data link protocol that fulfils the requirements toward the upper
layer may be used.

5 F1 Interface user plane protocol
==================================

5.1 General
-----------

The transport layer for data streams over F1 is an IP based Transport.
The following figure shows the transport protocol stacks over F1.

Figure 5.1: Transport network layer for data streams over F1

The GTP-U (TS 29.281 \[2\]) protocol over UDP over IP shall be supported
as the transport for data streams on the F1 interface. The data link
layer is as specified in clause 4.

The transport bearer is identified by the GTP-U TEID (TS 29.281 \[2\])
and the IP address (source TEID, destination TEID, source IP address,
destination IP address).

5.2 GTP-U
---------

The GTP-U (TS 29.281 \[2\]) protocol shall be used over the F1 interface
between gNB-DU and gNB-CU.

5.3 UDP/IP
----------

The path protocol used shall be UDP (IETF RFC 768 \[3\]).

The UDP port number for GTP-U shall be as defined in TS 29.281 \[2\].

The gNB-DU and the gNB-CU shall support fragmentation and assembly of
GTP packets at the IP layer.

The gNB-DU and the gNB-CU shall support Ipv6 (IETF RFC 8200 \[5\])
and/or Ipv4 (IETF RFC 791 \[6\]).

There may be one or several IP addresses in the gNB-DU and in the
gNB-CU. The packet processing function in the gNB-CU shall send
downstream packets of a given bearer to the gNB-DU IP address (received
in F1AP) associated to that particular bearer. The packet processing
function in the gNB-DU shall send upstream packets of a given bearer to
the gNB-CU IP address (received in F1AP) associated to that particular
bearer.

The Transport Layer Address signalled in F1AP messages is a bit string
of:

a\) 32 bits in case of Ipv4 address according to IETF RFC 791 \[6\]; or

b\) 128 bits in case of Ipv6 address according to IETF RFC 8200 \[5\];
or

c\) 160 bits if both Ipv4 and Ipv6 addresses are signalled, in which
case the Ipv4 address is contained in the first 32 bits.

5.4 Diffserv code point marking
-------------------------------

IP Differentiated Services code point marking (IETF RFC 2474 \[4\])
shall be supported. Except the downlink F1-U to the IAB node, the
mapping between traffic categories and Diffserv code points shall be
configurable by O&M based on 5G QoS Identifier (5QI) , the Priority
Level (if explicitly signalled), and other NG-RAN traffic parameters
(e.g. ARP). Traffic categories are implementation-specific and may be
determined from the application parameters. In the IAB system, the
Diffserv code points used for the downlink F1-U shall be configurable by
the CU-CP based on the O&M-configured mapping between traffic categories
and Diffserv code points.

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ---------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                           
  **Date**             **Meeting**      **Tdoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                                           **New version**
  2017-6               RAN3 NR ad hoc                                            The first version, includes technical content endorsed in previous meetings   0.1.0
  2017-9               RAN3\#97bis      R3-173796                                Rapporteur's update, minor correction                                         0.2.0
  2017-10              RAN3\#97bis      R3-174248                                TS 38.474 v0.3.0 covering agreements of RAN3 \#97bis                          0.3.0
  2017-12              RAN3\#98         R3-175075                                Baseline pCR to TS 38.474 covering agreements of RAN3\#98                     0.4.0
  2017-12              RAN\#78          RP-172671                                First submission to RAN for approval                                          1.0.0
  2018-01              RP-78                                                     TS approved by RAN plenary                                                    15.0.0
  2018-06              RP-80            RP-181238   0002               F         Rapporteur\'s correction to TS 38.474                                         15.1.0
  2018-09              RP-81            RP-181920   0004     \-        F         Updated reference to IPv6                                                     15.2.0
  2019-09              RP-85            RP-192166   0006     1         F         Correction of DSCP Derivation                                                 15.3.0
  2020-07              RP-88-e          RP-201077   0007     4         B         Support for IAB                                                               16.0.0
  2020-12              RP-90-e          RP-202310   0008     1         F         Correction in F1-U on DSCP Derivation in IAB-donor node                       16.1.0
  -------------------- ---------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
