3GPP TS 38.470 V16.11.0 (2023-09)

Technical Specification

3rd Generation Partnership Project;

Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;

NG-RAN;

F1 general aspects and principles

(Release 16)

![](media/image1.jpeg){width="1.3256944444444445in"
height="1.3256944444444445in"}
![](media/image2.png){width="1.7777777777777777in"
height="1.0368055555555555in"}

The present document has been developed within the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP ^TM^) and may be further elaborated for the
purposes of 3GPP..\
The present document has not been subject to any approval process by the
3GPP Organizational Partners and shall not be implemented.\
This Specification is provided for future development work within 3GPP
only. The Organizational Partners accept no liability for any use of
this Specification.\
Specifications and Reports for implementation of the 3GPP ^TM^ system
should be obtained via the 3GPP Organizational Partners\' Publications
Offices.

> Keywords
>
> NR-RAN
>
> ***3GPP***
>
> Postal address
>
> 3GPP support office address
>
> 650 Route des Lucioles - Sophia Antipolis
>
> Valbonne - FRANCE
>
> Tel.: +33 4 92 94 42 00 Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16
>
> Internet
>
> http://www.3gpp.org

***Copyright Notification***

No part may be reproduced except as authorized by written permission.\
The copyright and the foregoing restriction extend to reproduction in
all media.

© 2023, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI,
TTA, TTC).

All rights reserved.

UMTS™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its members

3GPP™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners\
LTE™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners

GSM® and the GSM logo are registered and owned by the GSM Association

 Contents {#contents .TT}
========

Foreword 5

1 Scope 6

2 References 6

3 Definitions and abbreviations 6

3.1 Definitions 6

3.3 Abbreviations 7

4 General aspects 7

4.1 F1 interface general principles 7

4.2 F1 interface specification objectives 8

4.3 F1 interface capabilities 8

4.4 Void 8

5 Functions of the F1 interface 8

5.1 General 8

5.2 F1-C functions 8

5.2.1 F1 interface management function 8

5.2.2 System Information management function 9

5.2.3 F1 UE context management function 9

5.2.4 RRC message transfer function 10

5.2.5 Paging function 11

5.2.6 Warning messages information transfer function 11

5.2.7 Remote Interference Management (RIM) message transfer function 11

5.2.8 Trace function 11

5.2.9 Load management function 11

5.2.10 Self-optimisation support function 11

5.2.11 Positioning function 11

5.2.12 IAB support function 12

5.3 F1-U functions 12

5.3.1 Transfer of user data 12

5.3.2 Flow control function 12

5.4 TEIDs allocation 12

6 Procedures of the F1 interface 12

6.1 Control plane procedures 12

6.1.1 Interface Management procedures 12

6.1.2 Context Management procedures 13

6.1.3 RRC Message Transfer procedures 13

6.1.3A Warning Message Transmission procedures 13

6.1.4 System Information procedures 13

6.1.5 Paging procedures 13

6.1.6 Void 13

6.1.7 Radio information transfer procedures 13

6.1.8 UE Tracing procedures 14

6.1.9 Load management procedures 14

6.1.10 Self-optimisation support procedure 14

6.1.11 Positioning procedures 14

6.1.12 IAB procedures 15

6.2 User plane procedures 15

7 F1 interface protocol structure 15

7.1 F1 Control Plane Protocol (F1-C) 15

7.2 F1 User Plane Protocol (F1-U) 15

8 Other F1 interface specifications 16

8.1 NG-RAN F1 interface: layer 1 (3GPP TS 38.471) 16

8.2 NG-RAN F1 interface: signalling transport (3GPP TS 38.472) 16

8.3 NG-RAN F1 interface: F1AP specification (3GPP TS 38.473) 16

8.4 NG-RAN F1 interface: data transport and transport signalling (3GPP
TS 38.474) 16

8.5 NG-RAN F1 interface: user plane protocol (3GPP TS 38.425) 16

Annex A (informative): Change history 17

 Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

 1 Scope
=======

The present document is an introduction to the 3GPP TS 38.47x series of
technical specifications that define the F1 interface. The F1 interface
provides means for interconnecting a gNB-CU and a gNB-DU of a gNB within
an NG-RAN, or for interconnecting a gNB-CU and a gNB-DU of an en-gNB
within an E-UTRAN.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 38.401: \"NG-RAN; Architecture Description\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 38.471: \"NG-RAN; F1 layer 1\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 38.472: \"NG-RAN; F1 signalling transport\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 38.473: \"NG-RAN; F1 Application Protocol (F1AP)\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 38.474: \"NG-RAN; F1 data transport\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 38.425: \"NG-RAN; Xn interface user plane protocol\".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; Overall description; Stage-2\".

\[9\] 3GPP TS 37.340: \"NR; Multi-connectivity; Overall description;
Stage-2\".

\[10\] 3GPP TS 38.321: \"NR; Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol
specification\".

\[11\] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol
specification\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

**BH RLC channel:** as defined in TS 38.300 \[8\].

**en-gNB**: as defined in TS 37.340 \[9\].

**gNB-CU**: as defined in TS 38.401 \[2\].

**gNB-DU**: as defined in TS 38.401 \[2\].

**gNB**: as defined in TS 38.300 \[8\].

**IAB-MT**: as defined in TS 38.300 \[8\].

**IAB-DU**: as defined in TS 38.300 \[8\].

**IAB-node**: as defined in TS 38.300 \[8\].

**IAB-donor**: as defined in TS 38.300 \[8\].

**IAB-donor-CU**: as defined in TS 38.401 \[2\].

**IAB-donor-DU**: as defined in TS 38.401 \[2\].

3.3 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

BH Backhaul

DRB Data Radio Bearers

F1-U F1 User plane interface

F1-C F1 Control plane interface

F1AP F1 Application Protocol

GTP-U GPRS Tunnelling Protocol

IAB Integrated Access and Backhaul

IP Internet Protocol

NR-MIB NR-Master Information Block

O&M Operation and Maintenance

PA Paging Area

PF Paging Frame

PO Paging Occasion

QoS Quality of Service

RIM Remote Interference Management

RLC Radio Link Control

RRC Radio Resource Control

SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol

SRB Signalling Radio Bearers

SIB1 System Information Block 1

SIB10 System Information Block 10

SIB12 System Information Block 12

SIB13 System Information Block 13

SIB14 System Information Block 14

SL Sidelink

TNL Transport Network Layer

V2X Vehicle-to-Everything

4 General aspects
=================

This clause captures the F1 interface principles and characteristics.

4.1 F1 interface general principles
-----------------------------------

The general principles for the specification of the F1 interface are as
follows:

\- the F1 interface is open;

\- the F1 interface supports the exchange of signalling information
between the endpoints, in addition the interface supports data
transmission to the respective endpoints;

\- from a logical standpoint, the F1 is a point-to-point interface
between the endpoints.

NOTE: A point-to-point logical interface should be feasible even in the
absence of a physical direct connection between the endpoints.

\- the F1 interface supports control plane and user plane separation;

\- the F1 interface separates Radio Network Layer and Transport Network
Layer;

\- the F1 interface enables exchange of UE associated information and
non-UE associated information;

\- the F1 interface is designed in a future proof way to fulfil
different new requirements, support new services and new functions;

\- one gNB-CU and a set of gNB-DUs are visible to other logical nodes as
a gNB or an en-gNB where the gNB terminates the Xn and the NG
interfaces, and the en-gNB terminates the X2 and the S1-U interfaces;

\- the gNB-CU may be separated in control plane (CP) and user plane
(UP).

4.2 F1 interface specification objectives
-----------------------------------------

The F1 interface specifications facilitate the following:

\- inter-connection of a gNB-CU and a gNB-DU supplied by different
manufacturers.

4.3 F1 interface capabilities 
-----------------------------

The F1 interface supports:

\- procedures to establish, maintain and release radio bearers for the
NG-RAN part of PDU sessions and for E-UTRAN Radio Access Bearers;

\- procedures to establish, maintain and release BH RLC channels;

\- the separation of each UE on the protocol level for user specific
signalling management;

\- the separation of each IAB-MT on the protocol level for IAB-MT
specific signalling management;

\- the transfer of RRC signalling messages between the UE and the
gNB-CU.

4.4 Void
--------

5 Functions of the F1 interface
===============================

5.1 General
-----------

The following clauses describe the functions supported over F1-C and
F1-U.

5.2 F1-C functions
------------------

### 5.2.1 F1 interface management function

The error indication function is used by the gNB-DU or gNB-CU to
indicate to the gNB-CU or gNB-DU that an error has occurred.

The reset function is used to initialize the peer entity after node
setup and after a failure event occurred. This procedure can be used by
both the gNB-DU and the gNB-CU.

The F1 setup function allows to exchange application level data needed
for the gNB-DU and gNB-CU to interoperate correctly on the F1 interface,
and exchange the intended TDD DL-UL configuration originating from the
gNB-DU or destined to the gNB-DU. The F1 setup is initiated by the
gNB-DU.

The gNB-CU Configuration Update and gNB-DU Configuration Update
functions allow to update application level configuration data needed
between gNB-CU and gNB-DU to interoperate correctly over the F1
interface, and may activate or deactivate cells. For cross-link
interference mitigation, the gNB-CU may coordinate the exchange of
intended TDD DL-UL configuration by merging, forwarding and selective
forwarding of intended TDD DL-UL configuration(s) between its gNB-DUs,
or between its gNB-DUs and other gNBs, gNB-CUs. With the gNB-CU
Configuration Update function, energy saving with cell
activation/deactivation can be supported as defined in TS 38.300 \[8\].

The F1 setup and gNB-DU Configuration Update functions allow to inform
the S-NSSAI(s), CAG ID(s) and NID(s) supported by the gNB-DU.

The F1 setup and gNB-CU Configuration Update functions allow to inform
the NID(s) available at the gNB-CU.

The F1 resource coordination function is used to transfer information
about frequency resource sharing between gNB-CU and gNB-DU. In case of
split gNB architecture, the gNB-CU may consolidate the outgoing messages
from multiple gNB-DUs and distribute the incoming messages to the
involved gNB-DUs, to perform resource coordination.

The gNB-DU status indication function allows the gNB-DU to indicate
overload status to gNB-CU.

The network access rate reduction function is used to indicate to the
gNB-DU that the rate at which UEs are accessing the network need to be
reduced.

The F1 removal function is used to remove the interface instance and all
related resources between the gNB-DU and the gNB-CU in a controlled
manner.

### 5.2.2 System Information management function

Scheduling of system broadcast information is carried out in the gNB-DU.
The gNB-DU is responsible for transmitting the system information
according to the scheduling parameters available.

The gNB-DU is responsible for the encoding of the NR-MIB message. In
case broadcast of SIB1 and other SIBs is needed, the gNB-DU is
responsible for the encoding of the SIB1 message, SIB10, SIB12, SIB13
and SIB14 and the gNB-CU is responsible for the encoding of other SIBs.
The gNB-DU may re-encode SIB9. The gNB-DU is responsible for the
generation of the SystemInformation message.

The gNB-CU is responsible for receiving the positioning assistance
information from LMF, e.g., the positioning related SIBs. The gNB-CU
transparently sends the positioning assistance information to the
gNB-DU. The gNB-DU is responsible for broadcasting the positioning
assistance information in Positioning SI message(s).

To support Msg3 based on-demand SI and RRC Dedicated SIB Request as
described in TS 38.331 \[11\], the gNB-CU can confirm the received SI
request from the UE by including the UE identity, and command the gNB-DU
to broadcast the requested *SystemInformation* messages including the
other SI.

To support UE RRC Positioning SI acquisition mechanism, as described in
TS 38.331 \[11\], the gNB-CU can confirm the received positioning SI
request from the UE by including the UE identity, and commands the
gNB-DU to broadcast the requested positioning SI messages.

### 5.2.3 F1 UE context management function

The F1 UE context management function supports the establishment and
modification of the necessary overall UE context.

The establishment of the F1 UE context is initiated by the gNB-CU and
accepted or rejected by the gNB-DU based on admission control criteria
(e.g., resource not available).

The modification of the F1 UE context can be initiated by either gNB-CU
or gNB-DU. The receiving node can accept or reject the modification. The
F1 UE context management function also supports the release of the
context previously established in the gNB-DU. The release of the context
is triggered by the gNB-CU either directly or following a request
received from the gNB-DU. The gNB-CU request the gNB-DU to release the
UE Context when the UE enters RRC\_IDLE or RRC\_INACTIVE.

This function can be also used to manage DRBs, SRBs and SL DRBs, i.e.,
establishing, modifying and releasing DRB, SRB and SL DRB resources. The
establishment and modification of DRB, or SL DRB resources are triggered
by the gNB-CU and accepted/rejected by the gNB-DU based on resource
reservation information and QoS information to be provided to the
gNB-DU. For each DRB to be setup or modified, the S-NSSAI may be
provided by gNB-CU to the gNB-DU in the UE Context Setup procedure and
the UE Context Modification procedure. In case of NG-RAN sharing, the
gNB-CU includes the serving PLMN ID (for SNPNs the serving SNPN ID) in
the UE Context Setup procedure.

For Uu, the mapping between QoS flows and radio bearers is performed by
gNB-CU and the granularity of bearer related management over F1 is radio
bearer level. For NG-RAN, the gNB-CU decides an aggregated DRB QoS
profile for each radio bearer based on received QoS flow profile, and
provides both aggregated DRB QoS profile and QoS flow profile to the
gNB-DU, and the gNB-DU either accepts the request or rejects it with
appropriate cause value. With this function, gNB-DU could also notify
gNB-CU whether the QoS for already established DRBs is not fulfilled any
longer or it is fulfilled again. The function can be also used to inform
the gNB-DU the alternative QoS Parameters Sets when available for a QoS
flow. To support packet duplication for intra-gNB-DU CA as described in
TS 38.300 \[8\], one data radio bearer should be configured with at
least two GTP-U tunnels between gNB-CU and a gNB-DU.

For SL, the mapping between QoS flows and radio bearers is performed by
gNB-CU and the granularity of bearer related management over F1 is radio
bearer level. For NG-RAN, the gNB-CU decides an aggregated SL DRB QoS
profile for each radio bearer based on received QoS flow profile, and
provides both aggregated SL DRB QoS profile and QoS flow profile to the
gNB-DU, and the gNB-DU either accepts the request or rejects it with
appropriate cause value.

With this function, gNB-CU requests the gNB-DU to setup or change of the
SpCell (as defined in TS 38.321 \[10\]) for the UE, and the gNB-DU
either accepts or rejects the request with appropriate cause value. This
function also enables the gNB-DU to inform the gNB-CU of which cell the
UE has successfully accessed during conditional mobility.

With this function, the gNB-CU requests the setup of the SCell(s) at the
gNB-DU side, and the gNB-DU accepts all, some or none of the SCell(s)
and replies to the gNB-CU. The gNB-CU requests the removal of the
SCell(s) for the UE.

With this function, the gNB-CU indicates the UL UE AMBR limit to the
gNB-DU, and the gNB-DU enforces the indicated limit.

With this function, the gNB-DU indicates that a bearer, or a UE is
inactive or active. The gNB-CU consolidates all the serving gNB-DUs for
the UE and takes further action.

With this function, the gNB-CU indicates the gNB-DU that the UE context
concerns mobility enhancement operation, and the gNB-DU takes
corresponding actions.

In addition, for IAB-nodes and IAB-donors:

\- The F1 UE context management function is used for managing BH RLC
channels, i.e. establishing, modifying and releasing BH RLC channel
resources. The establishment of BH RLC channels is triggered by the
IAB-donor-CU. The establishment and modification is accepted/rejected by
the IAB-node's parent, based on e.g. resource reservation information
and QoS information provided to the IAB-node's parent.

\- The DRB QoS profile framework is reused for BH RLC channels carrying
DRBs. Prioritization of traffic on the F1-C interface is based on
traffic type (e.g. UE-associated F1AP signalling, non-UE-associated F1AP
signalling) and is enforced in the IAB-donor-DU and in IAB-nodes,
considering that the traffic on the F1-C interface has higher priority
than other traffic; in-sequence delivery over the signaling connection
is always ensured.

\- The IAB-donor-CU associates each BH RLC channel carrying control
plane traffic with one of the signaled control plane traffic type
values.

### 5.2.4 RRC message transfer function

This function allows to transfer RRC messages between gNB-CU and gNB-DU.
RRC messages are transferred over F1-C. The gNB-CU is responsible for
the encoding of the dedicated RRC message with assistance information
provided by gNB-DU. This function also allows gNB-DU to report to gNB-
CU if the downlink RRC message has been successfully delivered to UE or
not. This function also allows the gNB-DU to duplicate the downlink RRC
message according to the duplication information provided by gNB-CU.

For IAB-nodes, this function allows to transfer RRC messages for setting
up and configuring the IAB-MT side of the BH RLC channel. These RRC
messages are carried on F1-C between the IAB-donor-CU and the parent
IAB-DU i.e. the gNB-DU side of the BH RLC channel.

### 5.2.5 Paging function 

The gNB-DU is responsible for transmitting the paging information
according to the scheduling parameters provided.

The gNB-CU provides paging information to enable the gNB-DU to calculate
the exact PO and PF. The gNB-CU determines the PA. The gNB-DU
consolidates all the paging records for a particular PO, PF and PA, and
encodes the final RRC message and broadcasts the paging message on the
respective PO, PF in the PA.

### 5.2.6 Warning messages information transfer function

This function allows to cooperate with the warning message transmission
procedures over NG interface. The gNB-CU is responsible for encoding the
warning related SI message and sending it together with other warning
related information for the gNB-DU to broadcast over the radio
interface.

### 5.2.7 Remote Interference Management (RIM) message transfer function

This function enables the transfer of Remote Interference Management
(RIM) backhaul messages between the gNB-CU and the gNB-DU. RIM messages
are transferred over F1-C. The gNB-CU acts as a coordinator on behalf of
its affiliated gNB-DUs, by merging the RIM information received from its
gNB-DUs and forwarding the merged information to the target gNBs or
gNB-CUs, transparently via the core network. Similarly, a gNB-CU
distributes an incoming RIM backhaul message to all its concerned
gNB-DUs.

### 5.2.8 Trace function

The Trace function provides means to control trace sessions for a UE
over F1 interface.

### 5.2.9 Load management function

The load management function allows an gNB-CU to request the reporting
of load measurements to gNB-DU and is used by gNB-DU to report the
result of measurements admitted by gNB-DU.

### 5.2.10 Self-optimisation support function

This function allows the gNB-CU to provide information to the gNB-DU in
order to support self-optimization functionality.

### 5.2.11 Positioning function

This function allows to transfer location management messages between
gNB-CU and gNB-DU. With this function, gNB-CU request TRP information
from gNB-DU, and gNB-DU response to gNB-CU with the TRP information.
With this function, gNB-CU request positioning measurements from gNB-DU,
and gNB-DU response to gNB-CU with the positioning measurements.

The function allows the gNB-CU to

\- transfer the positioning assistance data to gNB-DU. The gNB-DU is
responsible for broadcasting the positioning assistance data according
to the scheduling parameters available.

\- request the gNB-DU to configure SRS transmissions for UE.

The function allows the gNB-CU to request the gNB-DU to broadcast
positioning system information.

### 5.2.12 IAB support function

The BAP mapping configuration function allows the IAB-donor-CU to
provide BAP mapping which includes the backhaul routing configuration
and/or BH RLC channel mapping information for IAB-donor-DU or IAB-DU.

The gNB-DU resource configuration function is used by the IAB-donor-CU
to provide cell resource configuration for an IAB-donor-DU or an IAB-DU,
and/or information about the child node's cell resource configuration
and other periodic configurations to a parent IAB-node or an
IAB-donor-DU.

The IAB TNL address configuration function enable the IAB-donor-CU to
request IP address(es) to be used for IAB-node(s) from an IAB-donor-DU,
or to request from an IAB-donor-DU the removal of IP address(es) used
for IAB-node(s).

The IAB UP configuration update function allows the update of BH
information or the UP TNL information between the IAB-donor-CU and an
IAB-DU.

5.3 F1-U functions
------------------

### 5.3.1 Transfer of user data 

This function allows to transfer of user data between gNB-CU and gNB-DU.

### 5.3.2 Flow control function 

This function allows to control the downlink user data flow to the
gNB-DU. The detailed protocol is specified in TS 38.425 \[7\].

5.4 TEIDs allocation
--------------------

The gNB-DU is responsible for the allocation of the F1-U DL GTP TEID for
each data radio bearer.

6 Procedures of the F1 interface
================================

6.1 Control plane procedures
----------------------------

### 6.1.1 Interface Management procedures

The F1 Interface management procedures are listed below:

\- Reset procedure

\- Error Indication procedure

\- F1 Setup procedure

\- gNB-DU Configuration Update procedure

\- gNB-CU Configuration Update procedure

\- gNB-DU Resource Coordination procedure

\- gNB-DU Status Indication procedure

\- F1 Removal procedure

\- Network Access Rate Reduction procedure

### 6.1.2 Context Management procedures

The F1 Context management procedures are listed below:

\- UE Context setup procedure

\- UE Context Release Request (gNB-DU initiated) procedure

\- UE Context Release (gNB-CU initiated) procedure

\- UE Context Modification (gNB-CU initiated) procedure

\- UE Context Modification Required (gNB-DU initiated) procedure

\- UE Inactivity Notification procedure

\- Notify procedure

\- Access Success procedure

### 6.1.3 RRC Message Transfer procedures

The F1 RRC message transfer procedures are listed below:

\- Initial UL RRC Message Transfer procedure

\- UL RRC Message Transfer procedure

\- DL RRC Message Transfer procedure

\- RRC Delivery Report procedure

### 6.1.3A Warning Message Transmission procedures

The F1 Warning message transmission procedures are listed below:

\- Write-Replace Warning procedure

\- PWS Cancel procedure

\- PWS Restart Indication procedure

\- PWS Failure Indication procedure

### 6.1.4 System Information procedures

The F1 System information procedures are listed below:

\- System Information Delivery procedure

### 6.1.5 Paging procedures 

The F1 Paging procedures are listed below:

\- Paging procedure

### 6.1.6 Void

### 6.1.7 Radio information transfer procedures

The F1 Radio information transfer procedures are listed below:

\- DU-CU Radio Information Transfer procedure

\- CU-DU Radio Information Transfer procedure

### 6.1.8 UE Tracing procedures

The following procedures are used to trace the UE:

\- Trace Start procedure

\- Deactivate Trace procedure

\- Cell Traffic Trace procedure

### 6.1.9 Load management procedures

The load management procedures are listed as below:

\- Resource Status Reporting Initiation procedure

\- Resource Status Reporting procedure

### 6.1.10 Self-optimisation support procedure

The self-optimisation support procedure is used to transfer failure and
mobility related information from the gNB-CU to the gNB-DU to enable
self-optimisation

\- Access and Mobility Indication procedure

### 6.1.11 Positioning procedures 

The F1 Positioning procedures are listed below:

-   Positioning Assistance Information Control procedure;

-   Positioning Assistance Information Feedback procedure;

-   Positioning Measurement procedure;

-   Positioning Measurement Report procedure;

-   Positioning Measurement Abort procedure;

-   Positioning Measurement Failure Indication procedure;

-   Positioning Measurement Update procedure;

-   TRP Information Exchange procedure;

-   Positioning Information Update;

-   Positioning Information Exchange procedure;

-   Positioning Activation procedure;

-   Positioning Deactivation procedure;

-   E-CID Measurement Initiation;

-   E-CID Measurement Failure Indication procedure;

-   E-CID Measurement Report procedure;

-   E-CID Measurement Termination procedure;

-   Positioning System Information Delivery procedure.

### 6.1.12 IAB procedures

The IAB procedures are listed below:

\- BAP Mapping Configuration procedure

\- gNB-DU Resource Configuration procedure

\- IAB TNL Address Allocation procedure

\- IAB UP Configuration Update procedure

6.2 User plane procedures
-------------------------

7 F1 interface protocol structure
=================================

7.1 F1 Control Plane Protocol (F1-C)
------------------------------------

Figure 7.1-1 shows the protocol structure for F1-C. The TNL is based on
IP transport, comprising the SCTP on top of IP. The application layer
signalling protocol is referred to as F1AP (F1 Application Protocol).

![](media/image3.emf)

Figure 7.1-1: Interface protocol structure for F1-C

7.2 F1 User Plane Protocol (F1-U)
---------------------------------

Figure 7.2-1 shows the protocol structure for F1-U. The TNL is based on
IP transport, comprising the UDP and GTP-U on top of IP.

![](media/image4.emf)

Figure 7.2-1: Interface protocol structure for F1-U

8 Other F1 interface specifications
===================================

This clause contains the description of the other related 3GPP
specifications.

8.1 NG-RAN F1 interface: layer 1 (3GPP TS 38.471)
-------------------------------------------------

3GPP TS 38.471 \[3\] specifies the physical layer technologies that may
be used to support the F1 interface.

8.2 NG-RAN F1 interface: signalling transport (3GPP TS 38.472)
--------------------------------------------------------------

3GPP TS 38.472 \[4\] specifies the signalling bearers for the F1AP for
the F1-C interface.

8.3 NG-RAN F1 interface: F1AP specification (3GPP TS 38.473)
------------------------------------------------------------

3GPP TS 38.473 \[5\] specifies the F1AP protocol for radio network
control plane signalling over the F1 interface.

8.4 NG-RAN F1 interface: data transport and transport signalling (3GPP TS 38.474)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

3GPP TS 38.474 \[6\] specifies the transport bearers for the user plane
of the F1-U interface.

8.5 NG-RAN F1 interface: user plane protocol (3GPP TS 38.425)
-------------------------------------------------------------

3GPP TS 38.425 \[7\] specifies the user plane protocol being used over
the F1-U interface.

########  Annex A (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------ -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                   
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                                      **New version**
  2017-06              R3 NR\#2      R3-172492   \-       \-        \-        First version                                                            0.1.0
  2017-07              R3 NR\#2      R3-172639   \-       \-        \-        Incorporated agreed TPs from R3 NR\#2 Adhoc                              0.2.0
  2017-08              R3\#97        R3-173450   \-       \-        \-        Incorporated agreed TPs from R3\#97                                      0.3.0
  2017-10              R3\#97b       R3-174244   \-       \-        \-        Incorporated agreed TPs from R3\#97b                                     0.4.0
  2017-10              R3\#97b       R3-174259                                Merged text from TS 38.401 v040                                          0.4.1
  2017-12              R3\#98        R3-175060                                Incorporated agreed TPs from R3\#98                                      0.5.0
  2017-12              RAN\#78       RP-172286                                Submitted for approval to RAN                                            1.0.0
  2018-01              RP-78                                                  TS approved by RAN plenary                                               15.0.0
  2018-03              RP-79         RP-180468   0002     \-        F         UE Context Management Procedure Related with EN-DC Operation - Stage 2   15.1.0
  2018-03              RP-79         RP-180468   0006     \-        B         Correction of packet duplication                                         15.1.0
  2018-03              RP-79         RP-180468   0007     1         B         SCell management                                                         15.1.0
  2018-06              RP-80         RP-181237   0003     6         B         Introduction of SA NR (38.470 Baseline CR covering RAN3 agreements)      15.2.0
  2018-06              RP-80         RP-181238   0008     3         F         Adding new F1 procedure for UE Inactivity Notification                   15.2.0
  2018-06              RP-80         RP-181237   0010     \-        B         Introduction of LTE-NR coexistence function                              15.2.0
  2018-09              RP-81         RP-181922   0011     3         F         NR Corrections (38.470 Baseline CR covering RAN3-101 agreements)         15.3.0
  2018-12              RP-82         RP-182446   0015     1         F         F1 Load Management                                                       15.4.0
  2018-12              RP-82         RP-182446   0016     \-        F         Alignment with stage3                                                    15.4.0
  2018-12              RP-82         RP-182446   0018     2         F         CR to 38.470 on the introduction of RRC Delivery Report procedure        15.4.0
  2018-12              RP-82         RP-182448   0019     \-        F         Rapporteur CR to 38.470                                                  15.4.0
  2019-03              RP-83         RP-190556   0023     1                   Energy Saving Support over F1 Interface                                  15.5.0
  2019-07              RP-84         RP-191396   0034     1         F         Rapporteur updates                                                       15.6.0
  2019-07              RP-84         RP-191396   0036     1         F         Encoding of SIB9 in the gNB-DU                                           15.6.0
  2019-12              RP-86         RP-192915   0058     2         F         E-UTRA-NR Cell-level Resource Coordination                               15.7.0
  2019-12              RP-86         RP-192908   0035     2         B         Remote Interference Management Message Transfer Support                  16.0.0
  2019-12              RP-86         RP-192908   0038     1         B         Intended DL&UL configuration for TS38.470                                16.0.0
  2019-12              RP-86         RP-192913   0040     2         F         Trace function Support over F1 Interface                                 16.0.0
  2020-03              RP-87-e       RP-200425   0062     \-        D         Rapporteur: Editorial updates                                            16.1.0
  2020-07              RP-88-e       RP-201077   0026     15        B         BL CR to 38.470: Support for IAB                                         16.2.0
  2020-07              RP-88-e       RP-201080   0059     6         B         CR to TS 38.470 on support of NPN                                        16.2.0
  2020-07              RP-88-e       RP-201075   0063     4         B         TS38.470 Stage2 Introduction of Mobility Enhancement Features            16.2.0
  2020-07              RP-88-e       RP-201082   0064     3         B         BLCR to 38.470: Addition of SON feature                                  16.2.0
  2020-07              RP-88-e       RP-201074   0065     6         B         Support of NR V2X SIB in gNB-DU                                          16.2.0
  2020-07              RP-88-e       RP-201079   0067     2         B         PDCP duplication with more than 2 entities for F1 stage 2                16.2.0
  2020-07              RP-88-e       RP-201082   0068     1         B         BLCR to 38.470: Addition of MDT feature                                  16.2.0
  2020-09              RP-89-e       RP-201945   0061     8         B         Positioning support over F1AP                                            16.3.0
  2020-09              RP-89-e       RP-201956   0069     \-        F         Rapporteur Corrections                                                   16.3.0
  2021-03              RP-91-e       RP-210231   0070     3         F         Correction on IAB procedures                                             16.4.0
  2021-06              RP-92-e       RP-211330   0075               F         Stage-2 CR on system information message over F1 (Rel-16)                16.5.0
  2022-03              RP-95-e       RP-220276   0084               F         (Stage-2) Clarification on IAB Address Remove                            16.6.0
  2022-06              RP-96         RP-221154   0091     \-        F         Clarification on SRB duplication for TS38.470 (R16)                      16.7.0
  2022-12              RP-98-e       RP-222887   0106     1         F         Correction to 38.470 on Positioning System Information                   16.8.0
  2023-03              RAN\#99       RP-230597   0109     \-        F         Stage 2 text addition on SRS configuration for positioning               16.9.0
  2023-06              RAN\#100      RP-231075   0112     1         F         Correction of SIType List                                                16.10.0
  2023-09              RAN\#101      RP-231900   0115     \-        F         Correction on Positioning SI handling over F1                            16.11.0
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------ -----------------
