> 3GPP TR 38.825 V16.0.0 (2019-03)

Technical Report

3rd Generation Partnership Project;

Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;

Study on NR Industrial Internet of Things (IoT);

(Release 16)

The present document has been developed within the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP ^TM^) and may be further elaborated for the
purposes of 3GPP.\
The present document has not been subject to any approval process by the
3GPP Organizational Partners and shall not be implemented.\
This Report is provided for future development work within 3GPP only.
The Organizational Partners accept no liability for any use of this
Specification.\
Specifications and Reports for implementation of the 3GPP ^TM^ system
should be obtained via the 3GPP Organizational Partners\' Publications
Offices.

> ***3GPP***
>
> Postal address
>
> 3GPP support office address
>
> 650 Route des Lucioles - Sophia Antipolis
>
> Valbonne - FRANCE
>
> Tel.: +33 4 92 94 42 00 Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16
>
> Internet
>
> http://www.3gpp.org
>
> ***Copyright Notification***
>
> No part may be reproduced except as authorized by written permission.\
> The copyright and the foregoing restriction extend to reproduction in
> all media.
>
> © 2019, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI,
> TTA, TTC).
>
> All rights reserved.
>
> UMTS™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its
> members
>
> 3GPP™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its
> Members and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners\
> LTE™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
> and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners
>
> GSM® and the GSM logo are registered and owned by the GSM Association

 Contents {#contents .TT}
========

Foreword 5

1 Scope 6

2 References 6

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 7

3.1 Definitions 7

3.2 Abbreviations 7

4 Data duplication and multi-connectivity enhancements 8

4.1 General 8

4.2 Enhancements to PDCP duplication 8

4.2.1 Protocol aspects 8

4.2.2 Radio access network aspects 9

4.3 Higher layer multi-connectivity 9

4.3.1 Layer 2/3 protocol aspects 9

4.3.2 Radio access network aspects 9

4.3.2.1 Redundant user plane paths based on dual connectivity 9

4.3.2.1.1 Overview 9

4.3.2.1.2 Impacts on RAN 10

4.3.2.2 Multiple UEs per device for user plane 10

4.3.2.2.1 Overview 10

4.3.2.2.2 Impacts on RAN 10

4.3.2.3 Supporting redundant data transmission via single UPF and two
RAN nodes 11

4.3.2.3.1 Overview 11

4.3.2.3.2 Impacts on RAN 11

4.3.2.4 Supporting redundant data transmission via single UPF and single
RAN node 11

4.3.2.4.1 Overview 11

4.3.2.4.2 Impacts on RAN 12

4.3.2.5 Support replication framework in 3GPP System 12

4.3.2.5.1 Overview 12

4.3.2.5.2 Impacts on RAN 12

5 **Intra-UE prioritization/multiplexing** 12

5.1 General 12

5.2 Scenarios and use cases 13

5.2.1 Overview 13

5.2.2 Scenario 1: Intra-UE DL Prioritization 13

5.2.3 Scenario 2: Intra-UE UL Prioritization: Resource Conflict between
Configured and Dynamic Grants 13

5.2.4 Scenario 3: Intra-UE UL Prioritization: Resource Conflict between
Dynamic Grants 13

5.2.5 Scenario 4: Intra-UE UL Prioritization -- Resource Conflict
between Control Information and Control Information 13

5.2.6 Scenario 5: Intra-UE UL Prioritization -- Resource Conflict
between Control Information and Data 13

5.3 Solutions for uplink **intra-UE prioritization/multiplexing** 13

5.3.1 Solutions for resource collision involving data only 13

5.3.2 Solutions for resource collision involving control information 14

5.3.3 Physical layer aspects 14

5.4 Solutions for downlink **intra-UE prioritization/multiplexing** 14

6 **Time Sensitive Networking** 15

6.1 General 15

6.2 TSN use cases, scenarios and architectures 15

6.3 TSN performance evaluation 15

6.3.1 Requirements 15

6.3.2 Physical layer aspects 16

6.3.2.1 General 16

6.3.2.2 Latency 16

6.3.2.3 Reliability 19

6.3.2.4 Synchronization accuracy 20

6.3.3 Protocol aspects 22

6.3.4 Radio access network aspects 22

6.3.4.1 Time synchronization accuracy 22

6.3.4.2 Latency on network interfaces 22

6.3.5 Overall synchronization accuracy analysis 22

6.4 Accurate reference timing provisioning 23

6.4.1 General 23

6.4.2 Realizing accurate reference timing delivery 23

6.5 QoS and scheduling enhancements 23

6.5.1 Overview of traffic characteristics in TSN use cases 23

6.5.2 Issues and solutions related to TSN traffic support in NR 23

6.6 Ethernet header compression 26

6.6.1 Scenario and benefits assessment 26

6.6.1.1 General 26

6.6.1.2 Ethernet header fields 26

6.6.1.3 Padding 27

6.6.1.4 Benefit assessment 27

6.6.1.5 Industrial communication protocols using Ethernet 28

6.6.2 Potential solutions 28

6.6.2.1 Protocol layer 28

6.6.2.3 Relation to IP header compression 29

6.6.2.4 Design principles 29

6.6.2.5 Solution approaches 30

7 Conclusions 30

Annex A: Change history 33

 Foreword
========

This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

 1 Scope
=======

The present document is related to Study on NR Industrial Internet of
Things (IoT) with a scope as defined in \[2\].

The document describes NR enhancements to Ultra Reliable Low Latency
Communications (URLLC) and Industrial Internet of Things, which were
analysed as part of the study such as data duplication and
multi-connectivity enhancements, solutions for **UL/DL intra-UE
prioritization/multiplexing and Time Sensitive Networking support (TSN)
via accurate reference timing delivery, QoS/scheduling enhancements for
TSN traffic types, Ethernet header compression. Technical Report
captures also performance analysis of TSN requirements defined in
\[6\].**

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP RP-182090 \"Revised SID: Study on NR Industrial Internet of
Things (IoT)\".

\[3\] 3GPP TR 22.804: \"Study on Communication for Automation in
Vertical Domains\".

\[4\] 3GPP TR 23.725: \"Study on enhancement of Ultra-Reliable
Low-Latency Communication (URLLC) support in the 5G Core network
(5GC)\".

\[5\] 3GPP TR 23.734: \"Study on 5GS Enhanced support of Vertical and
LAN Services\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 22.104: \"Service requirements for cyber-physical control
applications in vertical domains\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol specification\".

\[8\] 3GPP TR 38.824: \"Study on physical layer enhancements for NR
ultra-reliable and low latency case (URLLC)\".

\[9\] IEEE 802.1Q-2014 - IEEE Standard for Local and metropolitan area
networks\--Bridges and Bridged Networks.

\[10\] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System architecture for the 5G System (5GS)\".

\[11\] 3GPP R2-1816689: \"Ethernet Header Compression\".

\[12\] 3GPP R2-1817175: \"Ethernet Header Compression\".

\[13\] 3GPP R2-1817572: \"Discussion on the Ethernet header
compression\".

\[14\] 3GPP TS 38.323: \"NR; Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP)
specification\".

\[15\] 3GPP R2-1817913: \"RoHC based Header Compression for TSN\".

\[16\] 3GPP R2-1816765: \"Ethernet header compression\".

\[17\] 3GPP TS 36.323: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP) specification\".

\[18\] IETF RFC 1951: \"DEFLATE Compressed Data Format Specification\".

\[19\] 3GPP S2-189051: \"LS on TSN integration in the 5G System\".

\[20\] 3GPP TR 37.910: \"Study on self evaluation towards IMT-2020
submission\".

\[21\] 3GPP R1-1900156: \"On evaluation of latency, reliability and TSN
requirements\".

\[22\] 3GPP R1-1901334: \"TSN evaluations for IIoT requirements\".

\[23\] 3GPP R1-1900935: \"Discussion on the RAN2 LS on TSN requirements
evaluation\".

\[24\] 3GPP R1-1901252: \"Evaluation on TSN requirements\".

\[25\] 3GPP R1-1901470: \"Reply LS on TSN requirements evaluation\".

\[26\] 3GPP R1-1900180: \"Reliability and Latency Evaluation for Case I
Factory Automation Scenario\".

\[27\] 3GPP R1-1901072: \"Discussion on TSN requirements evaluation\".

\[28\] 3GPP R2-1816043: \"LS on TSN requirements evaluation\".

\[29\] 3GPP R1-1901456: \"Summary of evaluations on TSN reliability,
latency and synchronization accuracy\".

\[30\] 3GPP R1-1900903: \"Discussion on Timing Requirements for
Industrial IoT\".

\[31\] 3GPP R1-1901353: \"Analysis of Time Synchronization Accuracy over
Uu Interface\".

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

BWP Bandwidth Part

CA Carrier Aggregation

CG Configured Grant

CSI Channel State Indication

DC Dual Connectivity

GM Grand Master

gPTP generalized Precision Time Protocol

HRP High Reliability Protocol

IANA Internet Assigned Numbers Authority

LCH Logical Channel

LCP Logical Channel Prioritisation

MTU Maximum Transmission Unit

PMU Phasor Measurement Unit

PTP Precision Time Protocol

RG Reliability Group

SCS Sub-carrier Spacing

SPS Semi-persistent Scheduling

SR Scheduling Request

TE Time Error

TRP Transmission Reception Point

TSN Time Sensitive Networking

UAV Unmanned Aerial Vehicle

URLLC Ultra Reliable Low Latency Communications

4 Data duplication and multi-connectivity enhancements
======================================================

4.1 General
-----------

This section focuses on PDCP duplication and higher layer
multi-connectivity aspects such as assessment of gains of duplication
with more than two copies, potential enhancements to achieve resource
efficient PDCP duplication and captures RAN aspects of higher layer
multi-connectivity solutions.

4.2 Enhancements to PDCP duplication
------------------------------------

### 4.2.1 Protocol aspects

In PDCP duplication, the PDCP entity delivers duplicate PDCP PDUs to
more than one RLC entity.

The benefit in supporting up to four (4) copies can give the NW freedom,
in certain architectural deployment scenarios, e.g. using CA or DC, to
configure towards achieving consistent reliability using several
concurrent radio links that dynamically vary in reliability and latency.
Duplication increases overhead as well as protocol complexity and use of
more than two copies is not expected to be a common configuration.

Multiple RLC entities/legs give better possibilities for varying link
characteristics and selecting for which radio links duplication is
active. This facilitates having duplicated PDUs transmitted, possibly
dynamically, on selected radio link(s) in a subset of a total number of
configured RLC entities/legs. For example, the active subset of
configured RLC entity/leg and/or carriers can be dynamically switched to
support flexible transmission of PDCP PDUs. In addition, supporting
multiple configurable RLC entities/legs also supports different
architectural deployments and combinations, e.g. DC in combination with
CA or other.

RRC configuration can be used to initially configure UEs of a set of RLC
entities or legs; for where the NW can dynamically control how
configured RLC entities or legs are activated and used for duplicate
transmission using signalling such as MAC CE. Dynamic selection of RLC
entities or legs may possibly also be made using other methods, for
example UE based.

PDCP duplication enhancements are applicable to CA, DC (NR only) and
DC+CA (NR Only). LTE enhancements are not considered in this SI.

In this study, selective duplication in the form of that UE (PDCP)
deciding on per packet basis if additional copies are needed, when a
copy is delivered to another RLC entity/leg and on which RLC entity/leg
a copy is transmitted have not been sufficiently evaluated. Details of
selective duplication and possible benefits need more evaluation.

The current Rel-15 PDCP discard mechanism is deemed sufficient and
benefits of an enhancement through a selective discard mechanism have
been determined to be not needed.

Possible benefits in improving activation/deactivation of PDCP
duplication could be to define UE based, configurable criteria or other
to allow a more dynamic activation and deactivation of duplication for
an RLC entity/leg or bearer. This would complement the extent to which
the number of duplicates on active bearers are used. However, it is not
clear from this study item if the benefit can be achieved within
reasonable complexity increase.

In this study, it is assumed that the same RLC mode in all RLC entities
per DRB are used. The RLC mode associated with a DRB is currently
determined based on the service or services carried on that bearer.

Enhancements to LCH restriction or LCP, possibly with dynamic adaptation
to improve e.g radio resource efficiency may be beneficial but has not
been studied in this SI.

### 4.2.2 Radio access network aspects

Packet duplication is regarded as an effective feature to meet the
reliability requirements for URLLC services but at the cost of radio
resources. Hence it is important to support efficient downlink packet
duplication from a RAN architecture perspective. The current Rel-15
packet duplication functionality should be taken as the baseline.
Optimizations to improve resource efficiency (e.g. Selective PDCP
duplication upon transmission failure, PDCP discarding, Effective PDCP
duplication) are discussed without full evaluation. Potential
enhancements may be possible.

4.3 Higher layer multi-connectivity
-----------------------------------

### 4.3.1 Layer 2/3 protocol aspects

TR 23.725 \[4\] has introduced several possible solutions enabling
higher-layer multi-connectivity. Some of the solutions were identified
to have RAN impacts and this section captures layer 2/3 protocol aspects
relating to Solutions \#2, \#3, \#7, and \#10 from \[4\], as summarised
below.

**Aspects of Solutions based on Reliability Group (Solution \#2 and
Solution \#10)**

To enable the realization of solutions based on reliability groups
(RGs), wherein multiple UEs of a device are associating to distinct
end-to-end connections to achieve diversity, broadcasting signalling
(such as SIB) in the air interface could be applied for purposes of RG
allocation (Solution \#10). However, existing mechanisms (e.g.,
providing cell reselection priorities in dedicated signalling) can
achieve the same functionality, and such an approach is preferable from
RAN point of view.

**Aspects of Solutions based on PDCP/GTP-U Enhancement or HRP Protocol
Layer (Solution \#3)**

Option 1 of Solution \#3 introduces dependency between the sequence
number in GTP-U header and PDCP SN, in which PDCP SN could be assigned
by the RAN nodes in accordance to the GTP-U header via mapping. Such
approach could result in impacts in terms of PDCP SN resetting. In
particular, the PDCP SN is used for ciphering, deciphering, and
integrity protection, so it is extremely important that both PDCP
transmitter and receiver have the same view of the SN of each of the
PDCP PDUs. The PDCP SN is always set to zero when the PDCP is
established. This can happen, for instance, when the entity is initially
set up or when an RRC reconfiguration with the full configuration option
is signalled. In this latter case (full configuration option), there is
a risk of packet losses in PDCP. In addition, PDCP re-establishment also
leads to PDCP SN reset to its initial value for UMD DRBs. PDCP
(re-)establishment are also triggered by RRC.

On the other hand, Option 2 of Solution \#3 introduces a new protocol
layer dubbed HRP between UE and UPF to handle packet replication and
elimination. Impacts to RAN are foreseeable as the knowledge regarding
whether this new protocol layer exists (and hence the header), is
required by the RAN to perform header compression/decompression at the
PDCP. Moreover, as this option requires two N3 tunnels for DC-based
architecture, two PDCP entities are needed at the RAN.

**Aspects of Solutions based on UPF Indication (Solution \#7)**

In Solution \#7, the UPF may indicate if a flow is utilized for
redundant packet, and the lower layer should be instructed to treat the
packets as uncorrelated as possible, in a bid to support reliable
transmission via multi-connectivity. How the RAN should respond to such
indication is an implementation issue and hence no specification impacts
have been observed. UL transmission was not analysed in detail.

### 4.3.2 Radio access network aspects

#### 4.3.2.1 Redundant user plane paths based on dual connectivity

##### 4.3.2.1.1 Overview

This is the solution of redundant user plane paths based on dual
connectivity for Key Issue 1 captured in TR 23.725\[4\].

The solution will enable a terminal device to set up two redundant PDU
Sessions over the 5G network, so that the network will attempt to make
the paths of the two redundant PDU sessions independent whenever that is
possible.

Figure 4.3.2.1.1-1: Overview of redundant user plane paths based on dual
connectivity approach

##### 4.3.2.1.2 Impacts on RAN

\- Attempt to establish and maintain dual connectivity when the need for
redundant user planes are indicated for a pair of PDU Sessions.

\- Set up dual connectivity in such a way that both the MgNB and the
SgNB have an independent PDCP entity for handling the two independent
user plane paths. This is supported in the specification already.

\- To achieve the use plane redundancy, one PDU session is setup as MN
terminated MCG bearer, the other PDU session (of the pair) is setup as
SN terminated SCG bearer.

\- To ensure independent paths, the bearer type change of MN terminated
MCG bearer to SCG bearer or split bearer may be disallowed. The bearer
type change of the SN terminated SCG bearer to MCG bearer or split
bearer may be disallowed.

\- If the PDCP duplication is to be used, the lower layer resources
should be ensured to be isolated, e.g. using other frequency.

#### 4.3.2.2 Multiple UEs per device for user plane

##### 4.3.2.2.1 Overview

This is the solution \"Multiple UEs per device for user plane\" for Key
Issue 1 captured in TR 23.725\[4\].

The solution will enable a terminal device to set up multiple redundant
PDU Sessions over the 5G network, so that the network will attempt to
make the paths of the multiple redundant PDU sessions independent
whenever that is possible.

Figure 4.3.2.2.1-1: Overview of multiple UEs per device for user plane
approach

##### 4.3.2.2.2 Impacts on RAN

\- O&M configuration of the RAN RGs on a per cell level.

\- Prioritization of the handover of the UE to a cell whose RAN RG
coincides with the UE RG, when such a suitable target cell is available.

#### 4.3.2.3 Supporting redundant data transmission via single UPF and two RAN nodes

##### 4.3.2.3.1 Overview

This is the solution of \"supporting redundant data transmission via
single UPF and two RAN nodes\" for Key Issue 1 captured in TR
23.725\[4\].

This solution realizes the reliability of user plane between UPF and UE
while the QoS flow redundant transmission in the PDU session is decided
by SMF.

Figure 4.3.2.3.1-1: Overview of redundant data transmission via single
UPF and two RAN nodes approach

##### 4.3.2.3.2 Impacts on RAN

\- The RAN node shall support redundant transmission via DC architecture
with two N3 tunnels.

\- In case protocol stack option 1 in TS 23.725\[4\] is adopted, RAN
need to ensure there is only one QoS Flow per DRB.

#### 4.3.2.4 Supporting redundant data transmission via single UPF and single RAN node

##### 4.3.2.4.1 Overview

This is the solution of \"supporting redundant data transmission via
single UPF and single RAN node\" for Key Issue 1 captured in TR
23.725\[4\].

In this solution the redundant packets will be transferred between UPF
and RAN via two independent N3 tunnels, which are associated with a
single PDU Session, over different transport layer path to enhance the
reliability of service.

Figure 4.3.2.4.1-1: Overview of redundant data transmission via single
UPF and single RAN node approach

##### 4.3.2.4.2 Impacts on RAN

\- The RAN shall be able to replicate the uplink packet per QOS flow and
assign the same GTP-U sequence number to these packets, and send the
duplicate packets to the two N3 tunnels.

\- The RAN shall be able to eliminate the duplicate downlink packets
based on the same GTP-U sequence number of these packets.

#### 4.3.2.5 Support replication framework in 3GPP System

##### 4.3.2.5.1 Overview

This is the solution of \"Replication framework in 3GPP System\" for Key
Issue 1 captured in TR 23.725 \[4\].

This solution introduces a replicator that allows the 3GPP system to be
aware (e.g. detect or have explicit information) that two or more
\"streams\" of replicated packets belong together, and guide the lower
layers to ensure these packets get an optimized treatment in the 3GPP
system.

The Replicator functionality may be a part of the UPF (or collocated
with the UPF) for user plane functionality and SMF for control plane
functionality.

Figure 4.3.2.5.1-1: Architecture with Replication Framework

##### 4.3.2.5.2 Impacts on RAN

\- Access to replicator functionality support. Replicator in the RAN has
the capability to replicate packets over N3 and/or eliminate further
replication of packets over Uu/N3.

5 **Intra-UE prioritization/multiplexing**
==========================================

5.1 General
-----------

This section describes an aspect of intra-UE traffic prioritization and
multiplexing considering data and control channels, different latency
and reliability requirements and different types of resource allocations
for both uplink and downlink directions.

5.2 Scenarios and use cases
---------------------------

### 5.2.1 Overview

Intra-UE prioritization/multiplexing considers the cases wherein a UE
confronts with DL/UL radio resource conflict between control/data
traffics associating to different QoS requirements. For example, a UAV
at a smart factory may have to concurrently cope with eMBB traffics such
as surveillance video and URLLC traffics such as motion control. The
objective of this section is to describe several scenarios of Intra-UE
prioritization that this SI has identified for further investigation.

### 5.2.2 Scenario 1: Intra-UE DL Prioritization

In this scenario, a UE has been scheduled to receive DL traffics with
different priorities, corresponding to different DL assignments received
sequentially, but over the radio resources overlapping in time.

### 5.2.3 Scenario 2: Intra-UE UL Prioritization: Resource Conflict between Configured and Dynamic Grants

In this scenario, a UE receives a dynamic grant for uplink transmission,
the associated PUSCH of which overlaps in time with reserved uplink
resources activated by either Type-1 or Type 2 configured grant.
According to the priority rule defined in Rel-15, dynamic grant always
overrides configured grant in situations of resource conflict between
them. However, this may not be desirable in some cases as configured
grants are typically used to cater URLLC traffics, and it may be
problematic if URLLC can be punctured by another dynamic grant.

### 5.2.4 Scenario 3: Intra-UE UL Prioritization: Resource Conflict between Dynamic Grants

In this scenario, a UE sequentially receives two dynamic grants from the
gNB for uplink transmission with overlapped PUSCH resources in time. For
such cases, currently there is no existing mechanism or rules for the UE
to determine how to handle prioritization of these two grants.

### 5.2.5 Scenario 4: Intra-UE UL Prioritization -- Resource Conflict between Control Information and Control Information

In this scenario, a UE needs to conduct uplink transmission of control
information such as SR, HARQ feedback and CSI associating to a
prioritized traffic at the same time as the on-going uplink transmission
of control information for other traffics with lower priority levels, to
reduce the resultant latency.

### 5.2.6 Scenario 5: Intra-UE UL Prioritization -- Resource Conflict between Control Information and Data

In this scenario, a UE needs to conduct uplink transmission of control
information such as SR, HARQ feedback and CSI associating to a
prioritized traffic at the same time as the on-going uplink transmission
of data for other traffics with lower priority levels, to reduce the
resultant latency.

5.3 Solutions for uplink **intra-UE prioritization/multiplexing**
-----------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.3.1 Solutions for resource collision involving data only

Data-only intra-UE prioritization is applicable for resource conflicts
between configured/configured, configured/dynamic, or dynamic/dynamic
grants.

UE prioritization of a grant when there is at most one dynamic grant in
the set of conflicting grants (scenario 2 and configured/configured
grant collisions) shall be addressed. MAC specifies currently the UE
prioritization of such cases, and modifications to MAC would be
required.

RAN2 assumes that the later dynamic grant may always be prioritized over
an earlier dynamic grant (scenario 3). One way to realize this is that
MAC generates a PDU for each grant and lets L1 handle conflicting
transmissions (to be confirmed following evaluation of physical layer
aspects). Other solutions are not precluded.

For cases when MAC prioritizes a grant, MAC prioritizes the grant on
which data of the highest priority can be transmitted according to LCP
restrictions and priority configured for each logical channel.

### 5.3.2 Solutions for resource collision involving control information

This section describes the issues and possible solutions for intra-UE
uplink resource collision cases corresponding to Scenario 4 and 5 listed
in Section 5.2, where at least one colliding uplink resources are
intended to be used for transmission of control information (e.g. SR,
CSI, HARQ feedback and MAC CEs).

For resource collision between SR associating to high-priority traffic
and uplink data of lower-priority traffic, the current specifications of
Rel-15 refrains transmission of SR by always prioritizing UL-SCH, which
may cause a delay for the SR transmission and may ultimately result in
failure to meet the QoS requirement of high-priority traffic. Possible
solutions include to define a prioritization handling rule to determine
whether to transmit SR or PUSCH based on e.g. the priority of the LCH
which triggers the SR and priorities of the data to be transmitted on
the PUSCH resource.

### 5.3.3 Physical layer aspects

RAN1 has discussed the uplink intra-UE prioritization/multiplexing in
scenarios 2, 3, 4 and 5 from PHY layer perspective.

For scenario 2, in case the collision between configured grant and
dynamic grant occurs in physical layer, options to determine the
prioritization between configured grant and dynamic grant include at
least:

\- Priority at PHY is determined by MAC layer for the purpose of PHY
prioritization.

\- Note: this may or may not have any RAN1 impact

\- Priority at PHY is determined via PHY channel(s)/signal(s)/parameters
for the purpose of PHY prioritization.

\- It is configurable as part of the configured grant configuration
whether it should have higher priority than dynamic grant in case of
conflict.

\- Other options are not precluded.

RAN1 recommends to allow the prioritization of configured grant over
dynamic grant under some conditions in case of collision in scenario 2.

For scenario 3, RAN1 recommends to support the handling of scenario 3.

For scenarios 4 and 5, RAN1 recommends to support enhancements for
scenario 4 and 5. RAN1 recommends considering the prioritization and/or
multiplexing behaviour among URLLC/eMBB HARQ-ACK/SR/CSI and URLLC/eMBB
PUSCH, including the cases with UCI on PUCCH and UCI on PUSCH. Note that
RAN1 has not concluded whether to support prioritization, or
multiplexing, or both.

5.4 Solutions for downlink **intra-UE prioritization/multiplexing**
-------------------------------------------------------------------

RAN1 has discussed the downlink intra-UE prioritization/multiplexing in
scenario 1. RAN1 recommends to support the handling of scenario 1.

6 **Time Sensitive Networking**
===============================

6.1 General
-----------

This section contains explanation on what TSN networking is and how it
can be supported using 5G/NR technologies as well as analysis of the
potential TSN specific enhancements of NR such has accurate reference
timing delivery, QoS/scheduling enhancements and Ethernet header
compression. It also contains an evaluation of NR with respect to
performance and synchronization accuracy requirements as defined in
\[3\].

6.2 TSN use cases, scenarios and architectures
----------------------------------------------

6.3 TSN performance evaluation
------------------------------

### 6.3.1 Requirements

The following requirements extracted from \[3\] are the baseline for the
TSN performance evaluation by RAN WGs:

Table 6.3.1-1 Use cases and requirements considered for TSN requirements
evaluation

  Case   \#UE   Communications service availability   Transmit period   Allowed E2E latency   Survival time     Packet size   Service area           Traffic periodicity   Use case
  ------ ------ ------------------------------------- ----------------- --------------------- ----------------- ------------- ---------------------- --------------------- -------------------------------------------------
  I      20     99,9999% to 99,999999%                0.5 ms            ≤ Transmit period     Transmit period   50 bytes      15 m x 15 m x 3 m      Periodic              Motion control and control-to-control use cases
  II     50     99,9999% to 99,999999%                1 ms              ≤ Transmit period     Transmit period   40 bytes      10 m x 5 m x 3 m       Periodic              Motion control and control-to-control use cases
  III    100    99,9999% to 99,999999%                2 ms              ≤ Transmit period     Transmit period   20 bytes      100 m x 100 m x 30 m   Periodic              Motion control and control-to-control use cases

It should be noted that, after finalization of Technical Specification
in \[6\], the requirements of various use cases as captured there take
precedence over those captured in Table 6.3.1-1 and extracted from
\[3\]. However, the differences for the use cases chosen for evaluation
in RAN WGs concern communications service availability requirement
(which was decreased) and service area and do not affect the outcome of
the analysis as presented in this document.

Furthermore, the following assumptions are made with respect to TSN
performance requirements analysis:

\- reliability targets going beyond 99.9999% can be achieved by higher
layer redundancy (e.g. PDCP duplication) and it is not required to
analyse whether those can be met on PHY layer

\- packet arrival jitter is not to be considered in performance
evaluation (i.e. RAN-level analysis focuses on whether the maximum
latency target can be met while de-jittering is handled by higher
protocol layers)

The requirements for clock synchronization can be found in sections 5.6
of \[6\]. The evaluation should focus on the following clock
synchronization performance requirements:

Table 6.3.1-2 Clock synchronisation service performance requirement
(source: 3GPP TS 22.104)

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Clock       | Number of   | Sync        | Service     | Scenario    |
| sy          | devices in  | hronisation | area        |             |
| nchronicity | one         | clock       |             |             |
| accuracy    | Co          | sy          |             |             |
| level       | mmunication | nchronicity |             |             |
|             | group for   | requirement |             |             |
|             | clock       |             |             |             |
|             | sync        |             |             |             |
|             | hronisation |             |             |             |
+=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+
| 1           | Up to 300   | \< 1 µs     | ≤ 100 x 100 | Motion      |
|             | UEs         |             | m           | control     |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             | Control     |
|             |             |             |             | -to-control |
|             |             |             |             | co          |
|             |             |             |             | mmunication |
|             |             |             |             | for         |
|             |             |             |             | industrial  |
|             |             |             |             | controller  |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 2           | Up to 10    | \< 10 µs    | ≤ 2500 m^2^ | High data   |
|             | UEs         |             |             | rate video  |
|             |             |             |             | streaming   |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 3           | Up to 100   | \< 1 µs     | \< 20 km^2^ | Smart Grid: |
|             | UEs         |             |             | sy          |
|             |             |             |             | nchronicity |
|             |             |             |             | between     |
|             |             |             |             | PMUs        |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

The synchronicity requirement captured in Table 6.3.1-2 is meant for
both intra- and inter-gNB cases. It is applicable to all UEs within the
service area irrespective of the number of gNBs deployed within the area
and the required precision is between the sync master and any device of
the global time/working clock domain.

### 6.3.2 Physical layer aspects

#### 6.3.2.1 General

Based on a request by SA2 in S2-189051 \[19\] and further request by
RAN2 in R2-1816043 \[28\], RAN1 has performed analysis on latency,
reliability and the achievable time synchronization accuracy over Uu
interface to evaluate the TSN performance requirements for physical
layer.

#### 6.3.2.2 Latency

Based on the LS from RAN2 in R2-1816043 \[19\], a 0.5ms one-way
(gNB-to-UE or UE-to-gNB) latency target is considered. One-way user
plane latency analysis has been carried out for both DL and UL following
the IMT-2020 evaluation methodology, which can be found in the TR 37.910
\[20\]. For UL, the grant-free PUSCH scheduling is considered. The
considered duplexing schemes include both FDD and TDD.

For FDD, assuming UE processing time of capability 2 with PDCCH
periodicity of 1 OFDM symbol, the one-way user plane latency from
different sources are shown in Tables 6.3.2.2-1 and 6.3.2.2-2 for DL and
UL, respectively.

Table 6.3.2.2-1: Downlink user plane latency (in ms) for 1 (initial)
transmission and 2 transmissions (initial and one retransmission) for
different PDSCH durations in FDD.

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | PDSCH   | Num. Tx | Source  | Source  | Source  | Source  |
|         | d       |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | uration |         | R1-     | R1-     | R1-     | R1-     |
|         | (s      |         | 1900156 | 1901334 | 1900935 | 1901252 |
|         | ymbols) |         | \[21\]  | \[22\]  | \[23\]  | \[24\]  |
+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+
| 15 kHz  | 2       | 1 Tx    | 0.54    | 0.607   |         | 0.49    |
| SCS     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 2 Tx    |         | 1.464   |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | 4       | 1 Tx    | 0.71    | 0.893   |         | 0.66    |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 2 Tx    |         | 1.893   |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | 7       | 1 Tx    | 0.93    | 1.286   |         | 0.93    |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 2 Tx    |         | 2.429   |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 30 kHz  | 2       | 1 Tx    | 0.31    | 0.339   | 0.357   | 0.29    |
| SCS     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 2 Tx    |         | 0.875   | 0.893   |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | 4       | 1 Tx    | 0.39    | 0.482   | 0.5     | 0.37    |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 2 Tx    |         | 1.089   | 1.107   |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | 7       | 1 Tx    | 0.5     | 0.679   | 0.679   | 0.51    |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 2 Tx    |         | 1.357   | 1.357   |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 60 kHz  | 2       | 1 Tx    | 0.24    | 0.259   | 0.268   | 0.23    |
| SCS     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 2 Tx    |         | 0.688   | 0.696   |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | 4       | 1 Tx    | 0.28    | 0.33    | 0.339   | 0.27    |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 2 Tx    |         | 0.83    | 0.839   |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | 7       | 1 Tx    | 0.34    | 0.429   | 0.429   | 0.34    |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 2 Tx    |         | 0.929   | 0.929   |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

Table 6.3.2.2-2: Uplink user plane latency (in ms) for 1 (initial)
transmission and 2 transmissions (initial and one retransmission) for
different PUSCH durations in FDD.

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | PUSCH   | Num. Tx | Source  | Source  | Source  | Source  |
|         | d       |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | uration |         | R1-     | R1-     | R1-     | R1-     |
|         | (s      |         | 1900156 | 1901334 | 1900935 | 1901252 |
|         | ymbols) |         | \[21\]  | \[22\]  | \[23\]  | \[24\]  |
+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 15 kHz  | 2       | 1 Tx    | 0.5     | 0.571   |         | 0.52    |
| SCS     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 2 Tx    |         | 1.429   |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | 4       | 1 Tx    | 0.74    | 1.071   |         | 0.79    |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 2 Tx    |         | 2.071   |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | 7       | 1 Tx    | 1.04    | 1.286   |         | 1.02    |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 2 Tx    |         | 2.786   |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 30 kHz  | 2       | 1 Tx    | 0.29    | 0.321   | 0.321   | 0.3     |
| SCS     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 2 Tx    |         | 0.821   | 0.821   |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | 4       | 1 Tx    | 0.41    | 0.571   | 0.465   | 0.43    |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 2 Tx    |         | 1.214   | 1.108   |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | 7       | 1 Tx    | 0.55    | 0.679   | 0.679   | 0.55    |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 2 Tx    |         | 1.429   | 1.429   |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 60 kHz  | 2       | 1 Tx    | 0.23    | 0.250   | 0.25    | 0.24    |
| SCS     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 2 Tx    |         | 0.679   | 0.679   |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | 4       | 1 Tx    | 0.29    | 0.375   | 0.375   | 0.3     |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 2 Tx    |         | 0.875   | 0.875   |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | 7       | 1 Tx    | 0.37    | 0.429   | 0.429   | 0.36    |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | 2 Tx    |         | 0.929   | 0.929   |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

For TDD, assuming UE processing time of capability 2 with PDCCH
periodicity of 1 OFDM symbol, the one-way user plane latency from
different sources are shown in Tables 6.3.2.2-3 and 6.3.2.2-4 for DL and
UL, respectively. The slot patterns \[7D,1S,6U\] (R1-1900156 \[21\]) and
\[7D,7U\] (R1-1901334 \[22\]) have been considered.

Table 6.3.2.2-3: Downlink user plane latency (in ms) for 1 (initial)
transmission and 2 transmissions (initial and one retransmission) for
different PDSCH durations in TDD.

+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
|            | PDSCH        | Num. Tx | Source       | Source       |
|            | duration     |         |              |              |
|            | (symbols)    |         | R1-1900156   | R1-1901334   |
|            |              |         | \[21\]\      | \[22\]\      |
|            |              |         | (\           | (\[7D,7U\])  |
|            |              |         | [7D,1S,6U\]) |              |
+============+==============+=========+==============+==============+
|            |              |         |              |              |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
| 15 kHz SCS | 2            | 1 Tx    | 0.72         |              |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
|            |              | 2 Tx    |              |              |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
|            | 4            | 1 Tx    | 0.95         |              |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
|            |              | 2 Tx    |              |              |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
|            | 7            | 1 Tx    | 1.29         |              |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
|            |              | 2 Tx    |              |              |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
| 30 kHz SCS | 2            | 1 Tx    | 0.4          | 0.5893       |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
|            |              | 2 Tx    |              | 1.125        |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
|            | 4            | 1 Tx    | 0.51         | 0.7321       |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
|            |              | 2 Tx    |              | 1.3393       |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
|            | 7            | 1 Tx    | 0.68         | 0.9286       |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
|            |              | 2 Tx    |              | 1.6071       |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
| 60 kHz SCS | 2            | 1 Tx    | 0.29         | 0.3839       |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
|            |              | 2 Tx    |              | 0.8839       |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
|            | 4            | 1 Tx    | 0.35         | 0.4554       |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
|            |              | 2 Tx    |              | 1.0446       |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
|            | 7            | 1 Tx    | 0.43         | 0.5536       |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
|            |              | 2 Tx    |              | 1.1429       |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+

Table 6.3.2.2-4: Uplink user plane latency (in ms) for 1 (initial)
transmission and 2 transmissions (initial and one retransmission) for
different PUSCH durations in TDD.

+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
|            | PUSCH        | Num. Tx | Source       | Source       |
|            | duration     |         |              |              |
|            | (symbols)    |         | R1-1900156   | R1-1901334   |
|            |              |         | \[21\]\      | \[22\]\      |
|            |              |         | (\           | (\[7D,7U\])  |
|            |              |         | [7D,1S,6U\]) |              |
+============+==============+=========+==============+==============+
|            |              |         |              |              |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
| 15 kHz SCS | 2            | 1 Tx    | 0.62         |              |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
|            |              | 2 Tx    |              |              |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
|            | 4            | 1 Tx    | 1.07         |              |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
|            |              | 2 Tx    |              |              |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
| 30 kHz SCS | 2            | 1 Tx    | 0.35         | 0.6071       |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
|            |              | 2 Tx    |              | 1.1071       |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
|            | 4            | 1 Tx    | 0.57         | 0.8214       |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
|            |              | 2 Tx    |              | 1.8214       |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
|            | 7            | 1 Tx    |              | 0.9286       |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
|            |              | 2 Tx    |              | 1.9286       |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
| 60 kHz SCS | 2            | 1 Tx    | 0.26         | 0.3929       |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
|            |              | 2 Tx    |              | 0.8929       |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
|            | 4            | 1 Tx    | 0.38         | 0.5          |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
|            |              | 2 Tx    |              | 1            |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
|            | 7            | 1 Tx    |              | 0.5536       |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+
|            |              | 2 Tx    |              | 1.3036       |
+------------+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+

Other sources (R1-1900180 \[26\], R1-1901072 \[27\]) also reported
latency analysis in different ways, which also show that the 0.5ms
latency target can be met. The latency analysis with other PDCCH
periodicities and UE capability 1 have also been considered.

[The 0.5 ms latency target analysis leads to the following RAN1
conclusions:]{.underline}

\- For 15 kHz SCS, the 0.5ms one-way latency target cannot be achieved
with Rel-15 NR.

\- For FDD, the 0.5ms one-way latency target can be achieved for both DL
and UL for 30kHz (and higher) SCS with Rel-15 NR for single shot
transmission.

\- For TDD:

\- For 30kHz SCS, some analysis shows the 0.5ms one-way latency target
can be achieved with the respectively assumed UL/DL configuration,
whereas other analysis indicates that it cannot be achieved with Rel-15
NR for the respectively assumed UL/DL configuration.

\- For 60kHz (and higher) SCS, the 0.5ms one-way latency target can be
achieved with the respectively assumed UL/DL configuration for both DL
and UL with Rel-15 NR for single-shot transmission.

#### 6.3.2.3 Reliability

Based on the LS from RAN2 in R2-1816043 \[28\], the reliability targets
of 99,99% (i.e. 1e-4) and 99,9999% (i.e. 1e-6) are considered as PDCP
data duplication may be used to increase the reliability. The
reliability analysis has been carried out for the following Case I in TR
22.804 V16.2.0 \[3\] using the IMT-2020 evaluation methodology:

  Case   \#UE   Communications service availability   Transmit period   Allowed E2E latency   Survival time     Packet size   Service area        Traffic periodicity   Use case
  ------ ------ ------------------------------------- ----------------- --------------------- ----------------- ------------- ------------------- --------------------- -------------------------------------------------
  I      20     99,9999% to 99,999999%                0.5 ms            ≤ Transmit period     Transmit period   50 bytes      15 m x 15 m x 3 m   Periodic              Motion control and control-to-control use cases

Additionally, the updated Case I in TS 22.104 V16.0.0 \[6\] is also
evaluated using the same methodology.

  Case   \#UE   Communications service availability   Transmit period   Allowed E2E latency   Survival time     Packet size   Service area         Traffic periodicity   Use case
  ------ ------ ------------------------------------- ----------------- --------------------- ----------------- ------------- -------------------- --------------------- -------------------------------------------------
  I      20     99,999% to 99,99999%                  0.5 ms            ≤ Transmit period     Transmit period   50 bytes      50 m x 10 m x 10 m   Periodic              Motion control and control-to-control use cases

On one hand, the SINR distribution for DL and UL channels with
full-buffer traffic is determined using the system-level simulator to
find the 5%-tile (one company reporting the 1%-tile, 1%-tile evaluation
represents a more stringent requirement than 5%-tile evaluation). On the
other hand, single UE link level simulation is performed to find the
BLER performance versus SINR. The corresponding 5%-tile (and 1%-tile)
SINR values are then used to check against the link level performance to
see if the reliability of 1e-4 to 1e-6 can be achieved or not. The
evaluation assumptions follow the link and system level evaluation
assumptions for the Factory Automation use case described in TR 38.824
\[8\] with the following modifications:

\- Modified system level evaluations assumption (on top of Table A.2.2-1
in Sec. A.2.2 of TR 38.824 \[8\]):

\- Network layout: A single cell placed in the middle of service area.

\- UE dropping: Uniformly dropped over the service area.

\- Modified link level evaluations assumptions (on top of Table A.3-2 in
Sec. A.3 of TR 38.824 \[8\]):

\- Channel model: TDL-D 30ns.

\- UE speed: 3km/h.

\- Payload size for PDSCH/PUSCH: 50 bytes.

\- PDCCH aggregation level: 16.

All sources that provided the analysis showed that the 5%-tile (and
1%-tile) SINR is adequate to achieve the reliability of 1e-6 with a
large margin. The 5%-tile (and 1%-tile) SINR and the required SINR to
achieve the reliability of 1e-4 and 1e-6 from different sources are
shown in Table 6.3.2.3-1 for both DL and UL. Details on simulation
results can be found in R1-1901456 \[29\].

Table 6.3.2.3-1: The SINR (dB) at 5%-tile (and 1%-tile), 1e-4 and 1e-6
error rate for PDCCH, PDSCH and PUSCH from different sources.

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th></th>
<th><p>Source</p>
<p>R1-1900156 [21]</p></th>
<th><p>Source</p>
<p>R1-1900180 [26]</p></th>
<th><p>Source</p>
<p>R1-1900935 [23]</p></th>
<th><p>Source</p>
<p>R1-1901072 [27]</p></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>1e-4</td>
<td>1e-6</td>
<td>5%-tile for Case I in TR 22.804 [3]</td>
<td>1e-4</td>
<td>1e-6</td>
<td>1%-tile for Case I in TR 22.804 [3]</td>
<td>1%-tile for Case I in TS 22.104 [6]</td>
<td>1e-4</td>
<td>1e-6</td>
<td>5%-tile for Case I in TR 22.804 [3]</td>
<td>1e-4</td>
<td>1e-6</td>
<td>5%-tile for Case I in TR 22.804 [3]</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>PDCCH</td>
<td>-9.4</td>
<td>-8.2</td>
<td>-3.38</td>
<td>-8.2</td>
<td>-7</td>
<td>-0.07</td>
<td>0.72</td>
<td>-0.5</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>59.7</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>8.84</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>PDSCH</td>
<td>-7.9</td>
<td>-6</td>
<td>-3.38</td>
<td>-4.1</td>
<td>-2.9</td>
<td>-0.07</td>
<td>0.72</td>
<td>-1</td>
<td>1.4</td>
<td>59.7</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>PUSCH</td>
<td>-7.9</td>
<td>-6</td>
<td>-2.74</td>
<td>-4.1</td>
<td>-2.9</td>
<td>-0.75</td>
<td>0.06</td>
<td>-1</td>
<td>1.4</td>
<td>10.9</td>
<td>-7.2</td>
<td>-5.85</td>
<td>1.1</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

On reliability analysis using single UE link level evaluations, RAN1
makes the following conclusions:

\- For the cases where the one-way latency target can be achieved, it
was observed that the reliability target of 1e-4 to 1e-6 can be achieved
with Rel-15 NR for the 5%-ile SINR geometry (e.g. cell-edge UE) in use
case I based on the agreed methodology and assumptions from RAN1\#95
(without PDCP duplication). It is RAN1 conclusion that PDCP duplication
is not always available/applicable.

#### 6.3.2.4 Synchronization accuracy

Based on a request by SA2 in S2-189051 \[19\] and further clarification
by RAN2 in R2-1816043 \[28\], RAN1 has performed analysis on the
achievable time synchronization accuracy over Uu interface between a gNB
and a single UE. The effects of the granularity and accuracy of the
absolute timing indication information provided by the gNB are not
considered. A range of service areas are considered.

RAN1 identified, that the achievable time synchronization accuracy is
dependent on the maximum gNB-to-UE distance in case the UE would not
compensate for the radio propagation delay between gNB and UE.
Therefore, RAN1 evaluated the achievable accuracy for the case without
UE propagation delay compensation for various gNB-to-gNB inter-site
distances (ISD) as well as for the case with UE propagation delay
compensation.

The evaluation results on maximum timing synchronization error for
different inter-site distances without UE propagation delay compensation
are summarized in Table 6.3.2.4-1, while the results on maximum timing
synchronization error with UE propagation delay compensation are shown
in Table 6.3.2.4-2.

Table 6.3.2.4-1: Summary of maximum timing synchronization error results
for\
different inter-site distances without UE propagation delay
compensation.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    15kHz SCS             30kHz SCS          60kHz SCS         120kHz SCS
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- ------------------ ----------------- -----------------
  Source\                                                                                                                                                                                                           \[-278ns,376ns\]      \[-147ns,245ns\]                     \[-82ns,180ns\]
  R1-1900156 \[21\]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            

  Source\                                                                                                                                                                                                           355ns (114m ISD)                                           
  R1-1900903 \[30\]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            

  Source\                                                                                                                                                                                                           215ns (20m ISD)\                                           
  R1-1900935 \[23\]                                                                                                                                                                                                 315ns (60m ISD)                                            

  Source ^(1)^\                                                                                                                                                                                                     133ns (10m ISD)                                            
  R1-1901072 \[27\]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            

  Source\                                                                                                                                                                                                           **506**ns (20m ISD)   441ns (20m ISD)    343ns (20m ISD)   
  R1-1901252 \[24\]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            

  Source\                                                                                                                                                                                                           315ns (10m ISD)\                                           
  R1-1901353 \[31\]                                                                                                                                                                                                 350ns (20m ISD)\                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1080ns (250m ISD)                                          

  Note (1): Half of the reported values of R1-1901072 \[27\] are included in this table, to align the results with the other sources and to only account for gNB-to-UE and not UE-to-UE synchronization accuracy.                                                              
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 6.3.2.4-2: Summary of maximum timing synchronization error
results\
with UE propagation delay compensation.

  -------------------------------------------------------
                      15kHz SCS   30kHz SCS   60kHz SCS
  ------------------- ----------- ----------- -----------
  Source\             488ns       357.5ns     276.5ns
  R1-1900156 \[21\]                           

  Source\             505ns       371ns       287.5ns
  R1-1901334 \[22\]                           

  Source\             472.5ns     338.5ns     
  R1-1900935 \[23\]                           

  Source\             536ns       438ns       357ns
  R1-1901252 \[24\]                           
  -------------------------------------------------------

Based on the evaluation results, the following has been observed:

\- If a UE were not to apply propagation delay compensation, a gNB-to-UE
timing synchronization accuracy of

\- 130 to 376ns for an ISD of 10m (3 sources)

\- 215 to 506ns for an ISD of 20m (3 sources)

\- 315 ns for an ISD of 60m (1 source)

\- 355ns for an ISD of 114m (1 source)

\- 1080ns for an ISD of 250m (1 source)

Based on the RAN1 agreed evaluation assumptions can be achieved for
Rel-15 NR with 15kHz SCS. The achievable accuracy without propagation
delay compensation becomes worse as the ISD increases. 2 out of 6
sources note that a better synchronization accuracy can be achieved for
higher SCS (i.e. the higher the SCS, the better the accuracy).

\- If a UE was to apply propagation delay compensation, a gNB-to-UE
synchronization accuracy of 470ns to 540ns (from a total of 4 sources)
for 15kHz SCS can be achieved independently of the ISD. The
synchronization accuracy with propagation delay compensation improves
for higher SCS (i.e. the higher the SCS, the better the accuracy).

\- For small service areas with dense small cell deployments a
propagation delay compensation by the UE is not required. The
propagation delay compensation needs to be applied by the TSN UEs for
larger service areas with more sparse cell deployments (inter-site
distances \>200m to achieve a synchronization accuracy better than 1us).

The related following conclusions of the physical layer aspects of the
achievable timing synchronization accuracy have been informed to SA1,
SA2, RAN2 and RAN3 in LS R1-1901470 \[25\]:

*A timing synchronization error between a gNB and a UE no worse than
540ns is achievable based on the RAN1 agreed evaluation assumptions for
Rel-15 NR with 15kHz SCS. It is RAN1´s conclusion, that the
synchronization accuracy is improved when using higher SCS. For small
service areas with dense small cell deployments a propagation delay
compensation by the UE would not be required. The propagation delay
compensation needs to be applied by the TSN UEs for larger service areas
with more sparse cell deployments (e.g. for inter-site distances \>200m
the gNB-to-UE timing synchronization accuracy without propagation delay
compensation may be worse than 1us).*

*Note that the RAN1 analysis does not contain the effects of the
granularity & accuracy of the absolute timing indication information by
the gNB, which are outside of the RAN1 study scope.*

### 6.3.3 Protocol aspects

With respect to different options of integrating TSN into 5G system, as
captured in \[5\], from RAN perspective, it is preferential to reuse the
current QoS framework and TSN integration options allowing that (e.g.
\"5G as a black box\") are preferred.

Protocol aspects of accurate reference time provisioning are discussed
in Section 6.4.

### 6.3.4 Radio access network aspects

#### 6.3.4.1 Time synchronization accuracy

Regarding the achievable time synchronization accuracy from the RAN
perspective, the synchronization accuracy between the gNB and TSN GM
clock can be much less than **1µs**.

As examples, several options for delivery of TSN time information from
the synchronization source were considered:

1\. Local on-site GNSS receiver as TSN GM clock;

2\. Local on-site TSN GM clock;

3\. Remote TSN GM clock entity using cascaded PTP capable transport
network connection.

The maximum absolute time error between the TSN GM clock and gNB for the
above time synchronization options is summarized in Table 6.3.4.1-1.

Table 6.3.4.1-1: Maximum absolute time error (TE) between TSN GM clock
and gNB

  *Synchronization source*                                                              *Synchronization accuracy*
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------
  Local on-site GNSS receiver (GPS is TSN GM clock)                                     \|TE\| = 100 ns.
  Local on-site TSN GM clock                                                            TE is negligible.
  Remote TSN GM clock entity using cascaded PTP capable transport network connections   \|TE\| \~N\*40ns, where N is the number of PTP hops.

#### 6.3.4.2 Latency on network interfaces

The latency introduced by network interfaces depends on the backhaul
type and network architecture. The latency can be negligible in certain
scenarios, e.g. high quality backhaul and/or compact architecture (e.g.
UPF collocated or very close to the gNB, no CU/DU split, etc). However,
there are cases where the latency introduced on network interfaces is
not negligible, e.g. when an operator wants to replace an existing wired
TSN network with a full \"in-building wireless solution\" or when
utilising wide area network deployment. In such scenarios, some delay
budget needs to be available for the network interface out of the
allowed E2E latency budget as specified in Table 6.3.1-1. This may also
require 5GS QoS enhancements to be supported to deliver deterministic
QoS on the links between the gNB and UPF, and at handover.

### 6.3.5 Overall synchronization accuracy analysis

The synchronization accuracy analysis is based on the following:

\- Synchronization accuracy achievable over the Uu interface discussed
in Section 6.3.2,

\- Synchronization accuracy between TSN GM clock and gNB discussed in
Section 6.3.4, and

\- Granularity of signalled reference timing discussed in Section 6.4.2.

Considering the above and assuming 100 ns time error between TSN GM
clock and gNB, as well as the sub-carrier spacing (SCS) of 15 kHz, the
overall synchronization accuracy error between a clock source and UE
clock would be equal to 665 ns (i.e. 540ns (air interface accuracy) +
100ns (network interface accuracy) + 25 ns (granularity/2)).

Some remarks about the above accuracy analysis:

\- Most UEs will achieve smaller errors when the network configures
higher SCSs.

\- The above calculation assumes the propagation delay is either
negligible (i.e. small service areas) or is compensated for in larger
service areas.

\- Without propagation delay compensation, for inter-site distances
greater than 200m, the gNB-to-UE timing synchronization accuracy may be
worse than 1us.

\- The synchronization accuracy analysis above is a generic analysis and
does not assume any particular solution in \[5\].

6.4 Accurate reference timing provisioning
------------------------------------------

### 6.4.1 General

To meet clock synchronization requirements in clause 5.6 of TS 22.104
\[6\], accurate reference timing delivery by a gNB to UEs is used.

### 6.4.2 Realizing accurate reference timing delivery

Accurate reference timing delivery is carried out using broadcast and/or
unicast RRC signalling (similar to E-UTRAN approach in \[7\]).
Granularity of the signalled reference timing is at most 50 ns and
determination of exact value needs further evaluation. Section 6.3.5
provides an analysis for synchronization accuracy achievable using
accurate reference timing delivery.

6.5 QoS and scheduling enhancements
-----------------------------------

### 6.5.1 Overview of traffic characteristics in TSN use cases

In TSN use cases, e.g. in a future factory environment, the UEs need to
handle a mixture of the following different traffic:

\- multiple periodic streams, of different periodicities, of critical
priority, for example multiple TSN streams coming from different
applications;

\- aperiodic critical priority traffic that is the result of critical
events, like alarms, safety detectors that need to be informed about the
occurrence of a critical event;

\- best effort type of traffic such as eMBB traffic, internet traffic,
or any other traffic supporting factory operations.

### 6.5.2 Issues and solutions related to TSN traffic support in NR

Table 6.5.2-1 presents TSN traffic characteristics, which may have
impact on the current QoS/scheduling framework in NR. Potential
approaches to resolve those impacts are also listed, which include
solutions with both specifications impact and no specifications impact.

Table 6.5.2-1: TSN traffic characteristics with potential issues and
enhancements

+-----+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| No. | TSN traffic       | Description       | Potential         |
|     | characteristic    |                   | solutions and     |
|     |                   |                   | enhancements      |
+=====+===================+===================+===================+
| 1   | Deterministic     | As captured in TS | Knowledge of TSN  |
|     | nature of TSN     | 22.104 \[6\], TSN | traffic pattern   |
|     | traffic           | traffic is often  | is useful for the |
|     |                   | periodic,         | gNB to allow it   |
|     |                   | deterministic     | to more           |
|     |                   | (meaning that the | efficiently       |
|     |                   | delay between     | schedule either   |
|     |                   | transmission of a | via CG/SPS or     |
|     |                   | message and       | dynamic grants.   |
|     |                   | receipt of the    | It would be       |
|     |                   | message at the    | beneficial to     |
|     |                   | destination       | provide the       |
|     |                   | address needs to  | relevant          |
|     |                   | be stable (within | information, e.g. |
|     |                   | bounds)) and with | upon QoS flow     |
|     |                   | a message size    | establishment.    |
|     |                   | which is fixed or | The provided      |
|     |                   | in a specified    | information       |
|     |                   | range.            | should at least   |
|     |                   |                   | include message   |
|     |                   |                   | periodicity,      |
|     |                   |                   | message size and  |
|     |                   |                   | reference         |
|     |                   |                   | time/offset.      |
|     |                   |                   | Additionally,     |
|     |                   |                   | such information  |
|     |                   |                   | as survival time  |
|     |                   |                   | could be          |
|     |                   |                   | considered, if    |
|     |                   |                   | deemed useful.    |
|     |                   |                   |                   |
|     |                   |                   | The information   |
|     |                   |                   | could be provided |
|     |                   |                   | either from the   |
|     |                   |                   | Core Network or   |
|     |                   |                   | from the UE, but  |
|     |                   |                   | since Core        |
|     |                   |                   | Network interacts |
|     |                   |                   | directly with the |
|     |                   |                   | TSN network and   |
|     |                   |                   | possesses all the |
|     |                   |                   | required          |
|     |                   |                   | information, it   |
|     |                   |                   | is preferred for  |
|     |                   |                   | this information  |
|     |                   |                   | to be signaled    |
|     |                   |                   | from the Core     |
|     |                   |                   | Network.          |
+-----+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| 2   | Short             | As captured in    | In order to       |
|     | periodicities of  | section 6.3.1,    | support TSN       |
|     | TSN messages      | the periodicity   | traffic flows     |
|     |                   | of the TSN flows, | with very short   |
|     |                   | which need to be  | periodicities in  |
|     |                   | supported over NR | DL direction, it  |
|     |                   | can be as low as  | is beneficial to  |
|     |                   | 0.5ms. Currently, | support           |
|     |                   | configured grants | additional,       |
|     |                   | can be set with   | shorter SPS       |
|     |                   | the periodicity   | periodicities.    |
|     |                   | as low as 2       | Using SPS has an  |
|     |                   | symbols, which    | advantage over    |
|     |                   | spans between     | dynamic           |
|     |                   | \~18us and        | scheduling        |
|     |                   | \~143us depending | utilization,      |
|     |                   | on the subcarrier | since it allows   |
|     |                   | spacing.          | reducing PDCCH    |
|     |                   | Therefore, in     | overhead and      |
|     |                   | uplink direction, | increasing        |
|     |                   | low periodicities | reliability by    |
|     |                   | of traffic can be | avoiding control  |
|     |                   | supported. On the | channel blocking. |
|     |                   | other hand, TSN   |                   |
|     |                   | communications is |                   |
|     |                   | bi-directional    |                   |
|     |                   | while for DL      |                   |
|     |                   | direction, the    |                   |
|     |                   | minimum           |                   |
|     |                   | periodicity for   |                   |
|     |                   | SPS configuration |                   |
|     |                   | is currently      |                   |
|     |                   | 10ms, which is    |                   |
|     |                   | not sufficient to |                   |
|     |                   | support of        |                   |
|     |                   | periodic TSN      |                   |
|     |                   | traffic.          |                   |
+-----+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| 3   | Multiple TSN      | As captured in    | In order to serve |
|     | flows in a single | section 6.5.1, a  | multiple TSN      |
|     | TSN device        | single UE may     | flows             |
|     |                   | need to handle    | simultaneously,   |
|     |                   | \"multiple        | it is beneficial  |
|     |                   | periodic streams, | to support        |
|     |                   | of different      | multiple          |
|     |                   | periodicities, of | Configured Grant  |
|     |                   | critical          | as well as SPS    |
|     |                   | priority, for     | configurations in |
|     |                   | example multiple  | the single UE,    |
|     |                   | TSN streams       | for a given       |
|     |                   | coming from       | Bandwidth Part of |
|     |                   | different         | a serving cell.   |
|     |                   | applications\".   |                   |
|     |                   | Therefore, a      |                   |
|     |                   | solution to serve |                   |
|     |                   | multiple TSN      |                   |
|     |                   | traffic flows in  |                   |
|     |                   | a single UE may   |                   |
|     |                   | be required.      |                   |
+-----+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| 4   | TSN message       | In TSN use cases, | The following     |
|     | periodicities     | the periodicity   | solutions could   |
|     | with non-integer  | of data packets   | potentially help  |
|     | multiple of NR    | which are sent    | in resolving or   |
|     | supported         | depends on        | mitigating the    |
|     | periodicities     | application and   | issue:            |
|     |                   | in majority of    |                   |
|     |                   | the cases, it is  | > \- Adjustment   |
|     |                   | not possible to   | > of SPS/CG       |
|     |                   | modify it. There  | > resource by RRC |
|     |                   | may be use cases  | > reconfiguration |
|     |                   | where periodicity | > (as per current |
|     |                   | values are not    | > specification)  |
|     |                   | multiple of NR    | >                 |
|     |                   | slot or symbol    | > \- Usage of     |
|     |                   | period, which are | > short SPS/CG    |
|     |                   | used to configure | > periodicities   |
|     |                   | CG/SPS            | > and/or multiple |
|     |                   | periodicity. The  | > SPS/CG          |
|     |                   | severity of this  | > configurations  |
|     |                   | issue depends on  | > and/or          |
|     |                   | the traffic\'s    | > combination     |
|     |                   | latency           | > thereof (for    |
|     |                   | requirement and   | > SPS, support    |
|     |                   | the frequency of  | > for shorter     |
|     |                   | misalignment      | > periodicities   |
|     |                   | occurrences.      | > than those      |
|     |                   |                   | > available in    |
|     |                   |                   | > Rel-15 may be   |
|     |                   |                   | > required)       |
|     |                   |                   | >                 |
|     |                   |                   | > \- More         |
|     |                   |                   | > efficient       |
|     |                   |                   | > adjustment of   |
|     |                   |                   | > SPS/CG resource |
|     |                   |                   | > timing in the   |
|     |                   |                   | > UE as compared  |
|     |                   |                   | > to RRC          |
|     |                   |                   | >                 |
|     |                   |                   |  reconfiguration, |
|     |                   |                   | > e.g. based on   |
|     |                   |                   | > network         |
|     |                   |                   | > configuration   |
|     |                   |                   | > or dynamic      |
|     |                   |                   | > network         |
|     |                   |                   | > signalling and  |
|     |                   |                   | > which could be  |
|     |                   |                   | > based on        |
|     |                   |                   | > knowledge of    |
|     |                   |                   | > TSN traffic     |
|     |                   |                   | > pattern         |
|     |                   |                   | >                 |
|     |                   |                   | > \- Applying     |
|     |                   |                   | > de-jittering    |
|     |                   |                   | > buffer at the   |
|     |                   |                   | > edges of 5G     |
|     |                   |                   | > system          |
+-----+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| 5   | TSN system        | As captured by    | Even though the   |
|     | synchronized with | SA1 requirements  | issue can         |
|     | external clock    | in section 5.6 of | potentially       |
|     |                   | TS 22.104 \[6\],  | impact            |
|     |                   | 5G system should  | scheduling, it is |
|     |                   | support TSN       | at the moment     |
|     |                   | services that are | understood that,  |
|     |                   | synchronized with | if it occurs, it  |
|     |                   | external clocks.  | can be resolved   |
|     |                   | Such external     | outside of RAN,   |
|     |                   | clock may not be  | e.g. by using     |
|     |                   | synchronized with | clocks with       |
|     |                   | clock used by NR, | sufficient        |
|     |                   | thus e.g., time   | accuracy or       |
|     |                   | offset and drift  | adjusting the     |
|     |                   | between the       | clocks without    |
|     |                   | clocks may occur. | RAN involvement.  |
|     |                   |                   |                   |
|     |                   |                   | Therefore, work   |
|     |                   |                   | on dedicated      |
|     |                   |                   | solutions in RAN  |
|     |                   |                   | is not deemed     |
|     |                   |                   | required at the   |
|     |                   |                   | moment, although  |
|     |                   |                   | the solutions     |
|     |                   |                   | mentioned in row  |
|     |                   |                   | 4 of this table   |
|     |                   |                   | could be          |
|     |                   |                   | applicable.       |
+-----+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| 6   | Mobility of the   | As captured in    | The following     |
|     | UE serving        | section 5.2 of TS | solutions can     |
|     | deterministic TSN | 22.104 \[6\], in  | address this      |
|     | traffic flows     | many factory      | issue:            |
|     |                   | automation use    |                   |
|     |                   | cases, the        | > \- Coordination |
|     |                   | devices (and thus | > between the     |
|     |                   | the UEs) are      | > target node and |
|     |                   | mobile, e.g. with | > source node on  |
|     |                   | speeds up to 75   | > the resource    |
|     |                   | km/h for a motion | >                 |
|     |                   | control use case. |  pre-reservation, |
|     |                   | It is important   | > e.g. exchange   |
|     |                   | to ensure that a  | > of QoS and TSN  |
|     |                   | UE which is       | > traffic pattern |
|     |                   | serving periodic  | > information     |
|     |                   | and deterministic | > between source  |
|     |                   | traffic using CG  | > and target gNB  |
|     |                   | or SPS            | > during          |
|     |                   | configurations,   | > handover. Such  |
|     |                   | after being       | > information may |
|     |                   | handed over to a  | > be used by the  |
|     |                   | neighbouring      | > target gNB to   |
|     |                   | cell, can still   | > provide CG/SPS  |
|     |                   | meet the service  | > configuration   |
|     |                   | requirements in   | > already in the  |
|     |                   | terms of          | > HO command.     |
|     |                   | delay/jitter and  | >                 |
|     |                   | periodicity       | > \- Higher layer |
|     |                   | considering that  | > or physical     |
|     |                   | the resources     | > layer           |
|     |                   | required to       | > duplications    |
|     |                   | achieve that, can | > from both       |
|     |                   | already be        | > target node and |
|     |                   | allocated for     | > source node     |
|     |                   | other UEs in the  | > until handover  |
|     |                   | target cell.      | > is successfully |
|     |                   |                   | > completed.      |
|     |                   |                   | >                 |
|     |                   |                   | > \- Other        |
|     |                   |                   | > solutions, e.g. |
|     |                   |                   | > those developed |
|     |                   |                   | > as part of 3GPP |
|     |                   |                   | > work devoted to |
|     |                   |                   | > mobility        |
|     |                   |                   | > enhancements,   |
|     |                   |                   | > could also      |
|     |                   |                   | > apply.          |
+-----+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| 7   | Co-existence of   | As captured in    | The potential     |
|     | deterministic and | section 6.5.1,    | solutions to the  |
|     | non-deterministic | UEs need to be    | issue include:    |
|     | traffic           | able to handle a  |                   |
|     |                   | mixture of        | \- Intra-UE or    |
|     |                   | periodic traffic  | Inter-UE traffic  |
|     |                   | with non-periodic | multiplexi        |
|     |                   | high priority     | ng/prioritization |
|     |                   | traffic as well   | or pre-emption,   |
|     |                   | as best-effort    | for example,      |
|     |                   | type of traffic.  | using solutions   |
|     |                   | Due to the high   | described in TR   |
|     |                   | requirements for  | 38.824 \[8\] or   |
|     |                   | TSN traffic (high | by allowing       |
|     |                   | number of users   | scheduling of     |
|     |                   | with very short   | non-adjacent      |
|     |                   | periodicity       | resources with    |
|     |                   | traffic), a       | dynamic grants.   |
|     |                   | significant       |                   |
|     |                   | portion of        | \- Deploying the  |
|     |                   | available         | network           |
|     |                   | physical          | accordingly, e.g. |
|     |                   | resources will be | via denser gNB or |
|     |                   | reserved to       | TRP placement (no |
|     |                   | periodic          | specification     |
|     |                   | high-priority TSN | impact)           |
|     |                   | traffic. This may |                   |
|     |                   | lead to           |                   |
|     |                   | inefficiencies in |                   |
|     |                   | dynamic           |                   |
|     |                   | scheduling of     |                   |
|     |                   | other types of    |                   |
|     |                   | traffic.          |                   |
+-----+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+

It should be noted that solutions for issues 2, 3, 4 and 7 may require
modifications to physical layer specifications and the PHY layer impacts
were not fully analysed.

6.6 Ethernet header compression
-------------------------------

### 6.6.1 Scenario and benefits assessment

#### 6.6.1.1 General

Ethernet header compression is a means to reduce the overhead induced by
transport of the Ethernet header. Ethernet frames may be transported
over the 5G system in an Ethernet PDU session type. Header compression
may especially be beneficial when payload sizes are relatively small
compared to the overall size of the frame, which is typically the case
in Industrial IoT networks based on Ethernet.

#### 6.6.1.2 Ethernet header fields

As an overview, IEEE 802.3 MAC Ethernet frame format is shown in IEEE
802.1Q, 2014, page 1703, \"Figure G-1---Example of IEEE 802.3 MAC frame
format\" \[9\].

Some parts of the Ethernet frame do not need transmission over the 5G
system, therefore TS 23.501 \[10\] states for the PDU session type:

*Ethernet Preamble and Start of Frame delimiter are not sent over 5GS:*

*- For UL traffic the UE strips the preamble and frame check sequence
(FCS) from the Ethernet frame.*

*- For DL traffic the PDU Session Anchor strips the preamble and frame
check sequence (FCS) from the Ethernet frame.*

Therefore, the fields PREAMBLE, SFD and FRAME CHECK SEQUENCE are not
transmitted over the 5G system and can just be ignored in Ethernet
header compression.

Furthermore, the DESTINATION ADDRESS (6 octets) and SOURCE ADDRESS (6
octets) fields provide the basic identifies of a station within the
Ethernet layer. These fields may be static among subsequent packets,
which can be exploited for compression.

The LENGTH/TYPE (2 octets) field may be used for length information or
to define the 802.1QTagType, and can be used in compression. In most
case where this is a TYPE-field the value would be static.

Tagging (Q-Tags) is widely used in Ethernet networks for traffic
separation and marking. During forwarding various tags may be added to
and removed from user data frames by the tag encoding and decoding
functions of L2 nodes. The most common Q-Tags named explicitly for
Ethernet header compression related contributions are:

\- C-Tag: Tag Protocol Identifier (TPID) and Tag Control Information
(TCI)

\- S-Tag: Tag Protocol Identifier (TPID) + Tag Control Information (TCI)

These Q-Tags include not only a VLAN IDENTIFIER, but bits used for QoS
purposes (e.g., PCP, DE) as well. Compression may not consider for
example those QoS related bits.

Q-TAGs and all their sub-fields may be static, which can be used in
compression.

There may be further fields within the Ethernet header for certain
use-cases, which were determined not to be useful to be considered in
structure-aware header compression.

#### 6.6.1.3 Padding

The allowed minimum Ethernet frame length is 64 bytes. Any frame which
is less than 64 bytes is illegal and dropped. Padding will be used to
fill up the payload field of the Ethernet frame for payload data sizes
smaller than the allowed field sizes. Padding is redundant, and
furthermore, the 5G system transporting Ethernet frames does not expect
Ethernet frame payload sizes of a certain defined length. Therefore,
padding may either be removed, e.g. at PDU session level, or compressed
as part of the header compression. Due to the absence of a length field
in the Ethernet header indicating the actual payload size, additional
complexity is required, when determining and compressing padding part of
the payload field. The complexity property is related to the applied
compression solution.

#### 6.6.1.4 Benefit assessment

First of all, to analyse the gains, assumptions of the Ethernet payload
sizes have to be considered. TS 22.104 (\[6\]) considers for example MTU
sizes between 20 and 250 byte in several periodic deterministic
communication service use-cases, and mentions also 1k-1.5k as payload
size for certain use-cases in electrical power distribution and
control-to-control motion control.

Given the minimum Ethernet frame size of 64byte, and assuming an
Ethernet header size between 14byte and 22byte (considering SOURCE ADR,
DESTINATION ADR, LENGTH/TYPE and potentially Q-TAGs), payload up to
40byte in the minimum Ethernet frame size can be considered. Padding
would be used for lower actual payload sizes.

To estimate the benefit of header compression, an assumption needs to be
taken to which size the header fields can be compressed. The following
tables assume compression from 18 byte to 1, 3, 5 bytes respectively.

From R2-1816689 (\[11\]) relative gains in terms of reduction of overall
frame size, assuming 1 byte compressed header:

Table 6.6.1.4-1: Relative gains in terms of reduction of overall frame
size, assuming 1 byte compressed header (Source:
[R2-1816689](http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/tsg_ran/WG2_RL2/TSGR2_104/Docs/R2-1816689.zip)
(\[11\]))

  Header size without compression   Overall frame size without compression   Header size with compression   Overall frame size with compression   Relative reduction in overall frame size
  --------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------------ ------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------
  **18**                            **64**                                   **1**                          **47**                                **[27%]{.underline}**
  18                                128                                      1                              111                                   13%
  18                                1518                                     1                              1507                                  1%

From R2-1817175 (\[12\]), relative gains in terms of reduction of
overall frame size, assuming 3bytes and 5bytes compressed header (from
18byte uncompressed header):

Figure 6.6.1.4-1: relative gains in terms of reduction of overall frame
size, assuming 3bytes and 5bytes compressed header (from 18byte
uncompressed header) (Source:
[R2-1817175](http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/tsg_ran/WG2_RL2/TSGR2_104/Docs/R2-1817175.zip)
(\[12\]))

Significant gains become obvious in the range of \~20-27% for frame
sizes of 64byte, as well as \~10-13% for frame sizes of 128 byte, and
moderate gains of \~5% for frame sizes of 256 bytes. For the maximum
frame size of 1518 only marginal gains of around 1% are observed.

There is a trade-off between compression complexity and efficiency, i.e.
to which minimum size the header can be compressed, with which effort
e.g. in terms memory/cycle times. Given the analysis above showing high
gains already for compression towards 3 or 5 bytes headers (instead of
towards 1 byte), it appears sufficient to consider a simple solution
only e.g. focusing on static header fields.

It is noted that potential additional gain in compressing/removing
padding is not considered in above numbers. Also, compression schemes
going beyond compressing the Ethernet header are not considered in the
analysis above.

#### 6.6.1.5 Industrial communication protocols using Ethernet

Beside support of generic Ethernet header compression, i.e. for IEEE
802.3 and/or IEEE 802.1Q, additional support for e.g. a wide range of
industrial field-bus technologies building on those protocols, could
potentially be considered, as discussed in
[R2-1817572](http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/tsg_ran/WG2_RL2/TSGR2_104/Docs/R2-1817572.zip)
(\[13\]). It would require deep packet inspection to support many
flavours of industrial protocols, leading to higher complexities.

### 6.6.2 Potential solutions

#### 6.6.2.1 Protocol layer

One aspect of the solution development of the Ethernet header
compression function is its placement, i.e. in terms of protocol layer
as well as network protocol termination point. IP header compression
today is done by Robust Header Compression (RoHC), which is part of
PDCP, thus compression is done between UE and gNB \[14\]. Ethernet
header compression could be anchored similarly on PDCP. See for example
R2-1817913 (\[15\]) or R2-1816765 (\[16\]) for further details. An
alternative option, mentioned in R2-1816689 (\[11\]), would be header
compression between UE and UPF, where the (Ethernet) PDU session is
terminated.

Figure 6.6.2.1-1: Potential Ethernet header compression anchor points
(Source: R2-1816689 (\[11\])).

Overhead reduction resulting from Ethernet header compression may be
only relevant over the radio interface Uu, assuming that the (wired) N3
interface has sufficient bandwidth. Therefore, Ethernet header
compression between UE and gNB is the only relevant option (i.e.
indicated as 2) in the figure. Furthermore, the natural protocol level
choice is PDCP, as it is the layer that today provides ROHC
functionality. As concluded from R2-1816765 (\[16\]), it would not be
suitable to perform Ethernet header compression in MAC or RLC layer due
to the encryption / integrity protection performed in PDCP layer. SDAP
layer is not a suitable layer either. SDAP layer mainly maps QoS flows
to DRBs. Adding Ethernet header compression functionality does not
conform to the main functionality of SDAP layer. Lastly, adding a new
layer on top of SDAP layer purely for Ethernet header compression is not
justified. There is additional complexity when Ethernet header
compression and ROHC are used together if Ethernet header compression is
in a different layer other than PDCP. Given that ROHC is PDCP layer
functionality and Ethernet header compression has the same motivation as
ROHC, it is natural that Ethernet header compression functionality is in
PDCP layer.

#### 6.6.2.3 Relation to IP header compression

Ethernet may transport IP or non-IP traffic. This aspect is mentioned in
e.g.
[R2-1817572](http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/tsg_ran/WG2_RL2/TSGR2_104/Docs/R2-1817572.zip)
(\[13\]). IP header compression may be considered when Ethernet header
compression is employed, in which case both independent/separate header
compression solutions can be envisaged as well as a joint/integrated
header compression of Ethernet and IP. Given the complexities inherent
in a joint compression scheme, and the benefits of a modular approach,
the developed structure-aware Ethernet header compression scheme should
not consider IP header compression within a joint solution.

#### 6.6.2.4 Design principles

Based on the analysis above, as a summary, the solution for header
compression would build on the following principles:

\- Preamble, SFD and FCS are ignored are not transmitted thus not
considered in Ethernet header compression.

\- Ethernet header compression considers the header fields DESTINATION
ADDRESS, SOURCE ADDRESS, TYPE/LENGTH, Q-TAGs (including all sub-fields),
but no further fields of the Ethernet header for structure-aware
compression solution.

\- Additional complexity of removing padding in Ethernet header
compression must be justified.

\- Further industrial protocols above Ethernet are not considered in
structure-aware Ethernet header compression.

\- The developed structure-aware Ethernet header compression scheme does
not consider IP header compression within a joint solution.

\- For structure-agnostic compression scheme, further fields, further
industrial protocols above Ethernet, IP header are compressed together
with Ethernet header.

\- PDCP at gNB is the network anchor for Ethernet header compression.

#### 6.6.2.5 Solution approaches

The following potential solution approaches were discussed in this
study:

**New PDCP solution**

Ethernet header compression may be specified by RAN2 within a new
solution integrated in PDCP. This study did not compare the performance
in terms of complexity and compression ratio/gains between New PDCP
solution and other solutions such as ROHC. The advantage of this
approach would lie in the standardization process, i.e. a pure
RAN2-based solution would avoid potential impact/dependencies to other
specification groups or bodies.

**ROHC-based solution**

Ethernet header compression may build on the ROHC-framework, which is
currently used for IP-header compression and applied on PDCP layer. A
ROHC profile specific to the Ethernet header would need to be defined,
meaning that the existing ROHC framework and features would be reused
and do not need to be developed. R2-1817913 (\[13\]) analyses the
benefits of this approach. For example, robustness of compression
against packet losses and in-built handling for multiple flows. On the
other hand, ROHC profiles are defined by IETF for TCP/UDP/RTP/IP
protocols, and Ethernet is defined by IEEE. It is unclear how 3GPP can
define a new ROHC profile and if/how IETF/IEEE adopts such new ROHC
profile. In addition, ROHC profile identifiers may need registration
with IANA. Such collaboration/liaison with other standard bodies may add
uncertainties and could delay the work completion.

**UDC-based solution**

In LTE, Uplink Data Compression (UDC) \[17\] is defined in PDCP
specification and based on IETF RFC 1951 (DEFLATE Compressed Data Format
Specification) \[18\], and allows a generic compression of PDCP SDU
data. It is unaware of the header structures of higher layer PDCP
payload, i.e. Ethernet in this case. This way, also further headers of
protocol layers above Ethernet including IP header, as well as padding
and payload data, may be compressed. This study did not compare the
performance in terms of complexity between UDC-based and other
header-structure-aware schemes such as ROHC. An advantage of the
UDC-based approach would also be that it is a pure RAN2 based solution
without impacting to other specification groups or bodies.

7 Conclusions
=============

RAN WGs analysed various issues and solutions as per the objectives
described in \[2\] and the conclusions and recommendations are provided
below for each of these objectives respectively.

**PDCP duplication enhancements**

Various enhancements for PDCP duplication framework were analysed, as
captured in section 4.2, and the following is concluded:

\- For increased reliability, it is recommended to support PDCP
duplication enhancement with up to 4 copies. To achieve that, it is
recommended to specify the following enhancement:

\- Support of PDCP duplication with up to 4 RLC entities configured by
RRC in architectural combinations including CA, and NR-DC in combination
with CA. It is assumed that all RLC entities are configured with the
same transmission mode.

\- Support of dynamic control of how a set or subset of configured RLC
entities or legs are used by the UE for PDCP duplication, e.g. using MAC
CE. Other methods of leg selection are not precluded.

\- The solutions to increase resource efficiency when PDCP duplication
is activated were analysed, including: per-packet selective duplication,
selective discard mechanism, activation/deactivation of PDCP duplication
enhancements. Based on the analysis in the SI, as captured in section
4.2.1, it is recommended to specify activation/deactivation of PDCP
enhancements, e.g. MAC CE based or based on UE configurable criteria,
provided that complexity increase is reasonable. Other solutions are not
precluded, e.g. per-packet selective duplication. Enhancements for
selective discard are not required.

Enhancements to improve resource efficiency in the downlink were
discussed in RAN3. From RAN3 perspective, it is recommended that the
Rel-15 PDCP duplication functionality should be taken as baseline, and
enhancements for efficient DL PDCP duplication without impacting the UE
may be specified, provided that gains can be confirmed with a reasonable
complexity.

**Higher layer multi-connectivity impacts on RAN**

RAN WGs have analysed higher layer multi-connectivity solutions as
studied by SA2 and RAN impacts are explained in section 4.3. RAN impact
analysis was communicated to SA2. Depending on further normative work in
SA2, RAN2 and RAN3 may need to perform some specification work as well.

**Intra-UE prioritization and multiplexing**

RAN 2 has analysed intra-UE prioritization and multiplexing for
scenarios 1-5 as captured in section 5.2. It is deemed feasible to
support enhanced prioritization between different traffic types and
priorities as described by these scenarios. Additionally, a scenario
where conflicts between multiple active configured grants occur should
be addressed. In particular, based on the analysis, the following is
recommended to be undertaken in the WI phase:

\- Specification of enhancements to address scenario 2 and conflicts
involving multiple CGs.

\- Address scenario 3 under the assumption that the later dynamic grant
may always be prioritized over an earlier dynamic grant, e.g. by MAC
generating a PDU for each grant and letting physical layer to handle the
conflicting transmissions (this solution requires further physical layer
aspects evaluation). Other solutions may be considered.

\- Specification of grant prioritization in MAC based on LCH priorities
and LCP restrictions for the cases where MAC prioritizes the grant.

\- Address a resource collision between SR associating to high-priority
traffic and uplink data of lower-priority traffic, e.g. by specifying a
prioritization handling rule to determine whether to transmit SR or
PUSCH based on, e.g. the priority of the LCH which triggers the SR and
priorities of the data to be transmitted on the PUSCH resource.

RAN1 has briefly discussed scenarios 1-5. RAN1 recommends to support the
handling of scenarios 1 and 3, to allow the prioritization of configured
grant over dynamic grant under some conditions in case of collision in
scenario 2, and to support enhancements for scenario 4 and 5, following
the guidelines and candidate solutions provided in section 5.3 and 5.4.

**Performance evaluation of TSN requirements**

RAN WGs have analysed TSN requirements as captured in section 6.3.1 and
it is concluded that NR, with some additional enhancements introduced in
Rel-16, can meet the requirements in TS 22.104 with respect to latency,
reliability and synchronization accuracy for some network configurations
and deployments, but the performance depends on such aspects as utilized
subcarrier spacing, FDD or TDD network type, backhaul type, cell density
etc.

**Accurate reference time provisioning**

In order to enable precise time synchronization using 5G/NR system, it
is recommended to specify accurate reference timing delivery from gNB to
UE using broadcast and/or unicast RRC signalling. The signalling
specified in Rel-15 for E-UTRA can be used as a baseline, but the time
information should have granularity no higher than 50 ns. The final
design may also depend on SA2 decision with respect to overall
synchronization solution.

**Enhancements (e.g. for scheduling) to satisfy QoS for wireless
Ethernet when using TSN traffic patterns**

Based on analysis of TSN traffic characteristics, the following
enhancements are recommended for specification:

\- Support of provisioning, from Core Network to RAN, of TSN traffic
pattern related information such as message periodicity, message size,
message arrival time at gNB (DL) and UE (UL).

\- Support for multiple simultaneous active CG and SPS configurations
for a given BWP of a UE.

\- Support for shorter SPS periodicities than the existing ones

In addition, it is concluded that NR should address the following issues
related to TSN traffic characteristics:

\- Support TSN message periodicities with non-integer multiple of NR
supported periodicities. Candidate solutions are captured in section
6.5.2. The choice and the details of the solution should be decided in
WI phase.

It is noted that the scheduling enhancements related to TSN traffic
patterns may have impact on physical layer and RAN1 needs to be involved
in the related work in WI phase.

**Ethernet header compression**

With respect to Ethernet header compression, RAN2 concluded that it is
beneficial in the context of Industrial IoT use cases. The solution for
header compression should be built using the principles in Section
6.6.2.4.

#########  Annex A: Change history

+--------+--------+--------+----+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| Change |        |        |    |     |     |        |        |
| h      |        |        |    |     |     |        |        |
| istory |        |        |    |     |     |        |        |
+--------+--------+--------+----+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| Date   | M      | TDoc   | CR | Rev | Cat | Sub    | New    |
|        | eeting |        |    |     |     | ject/C | v      |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | omment | ersion |
+--------+--------+--------+----+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 0      | RAN2\# | R2-1   |    |     |     | Sk     | 0.0.0  |
| 9/2018 | 103bis | 814990 |    |     |     | eleton |        |
+--------+--------+--------+----+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 1      | RAN    | R2-1   |    |     |     | Incorp | 0.0.1  |
| 1/2018 | 2\#104 | 817266 |    |     |     | orates |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | TP     |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | from   |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | R3-    |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | 186254 |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | higher |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | layer  |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | m      |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | ulti-c |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | onnect |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | ivity. |        |
+--------+--------+--------+----+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 0      | RAN    | R2-1   |    |     |     | Se     | 0.0.2  |
| 2/2019 | 2\#105 | 900629 |    |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | tra-UE |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | prio   |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | ritiza |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | tion/m |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | ultipl |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | exing, |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | TSN    |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | perfo  |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | rmance |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | eval   |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | uation |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | QoS    |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | sche   |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | duling |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | enhanc |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | ements |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | u      |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | pdated |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | fol    |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | lowing |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | the    |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | TPs    |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | agreed |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | during |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | RAN    |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | 2\#104 |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | me     |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | eting. |        |
+--------+--------+--------+----+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 0      | RAN    | R2-1   |    |     |     | Clean  | 0.1.0  |
| 2/2019 | 2\#105 | 900630 |    |     |     | v      |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | ersion |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | V0.0.2 |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | (w     |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | ithout |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | re     |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | vision |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | m      |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | arks). |        |
+--------+--------+--------+----+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 0      | RAN    | R2-1   |    |     |     | V      | 0.1.1  |
| 3/2019 | 2\#105 | 902776 |    |     |     | ersion |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | cludes |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | TPs    |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | agreed |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | during |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | RAN    |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | 1\#96, |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | RAN    |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | 2\#105 |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | RAN    |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | 3\#103 |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | on     |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | PDCP   |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | duplic |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | ation, |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | higher |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | layer  |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | m      |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | ulti-c |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | onnect |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | ivity, |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | tra-UE |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | prio   |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | ritiza |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | tion/m |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | ultipl |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | exing, |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | TSN    |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | perfo  |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | rmance |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | evalu  |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | ation, |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | ac     |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | curate |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | ref    |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | erence |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | timing |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | p      |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | rovisi |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | oning, |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | QoS    |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | sche   |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | duling |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | e      |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | nhance |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | ments, |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | Et     |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | hernet |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | header |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | compre |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | ssion. |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | It     |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | also   |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | in     |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | cludes |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | the    |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | agreed |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | concl  |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | usions |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | of the |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | Study  |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | Item.  |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     |        |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | A      |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | dditio |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | nally, |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | edi    |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | torial |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | correc |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | tions, |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | cl     |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | ean-up |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | of the |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | doc    |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | ument, |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | a      |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | bbrevi |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | ations |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | added  |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | r      |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | emoval |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | of the |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | unnec  |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | essary |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | pa     |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | rts/se |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | of the |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | TR.    |        |
+--------+--------+--------+----+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 0      | RAN    | R2-1   |    |     |     | Clean  | 0.2.0  |
| 3/2019 | 2\#105 | 902777 |    |     |     | v      |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | ersion |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | of     |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | V0.1.1 |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | (w     |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | ithout |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | re     |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | vision |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | m      |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | arks). |        |
+--------+--------+--------+----+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 0      | R      | RP-    |    |     |     | Form   | 1.0.0  |
| 3/2019 | AN\#83 | 190189 |    |     |     | atting |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | corre  |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | ctions |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | with   |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | r      |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | espect |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | V      |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | 0.2.0. |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | Sub    |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | mitted |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | R      |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | AN\#83 |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | for    |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | app    |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | roval. |        |
+--------+--------+--------+----+-----+-----+--------+--------+
| 0      | R      |        |    |     |     | Ap     | 16.0.0 |
| 3/2019 | AN\#83 |        |    |     |     | proved |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | and    |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | up     |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | graded |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | to     |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | v      |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | ersion |        |
|        |        |        |    |     |     | 16.0.0 |        |
+--------+--------+--------+----+-----+-----+--------+--------+
