3GPP TR 38.840 V16.0.0 (2019-06)

Technical Report

3rd Generation Partnership Project;

Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;

NR;

Study on User Equipment (UE) power saving in NR

(Release 16)

![5G-logo\_175px](media/image1.jpeg){width="1.3215277777777779in"
height="0.9131944444444444in"}
![3GPP-logo\_web](media/image2.png){width="1.7826388888888889in"
height="1.04375in"}

The present document has been developed within the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP ^TM^) and may be further elaborated for the
purposes of 3GPP.\
The present document has not been subject to any approval process by the
3GPP Organizational Partners and shall not be implemented.\
This Report is provided for future development work within 3GPP only.
The Organizational Partners accept no liability for any use of this
Specification.\
Specifications and Reports for implementation of the 3GPP ^TM^ system
should be obtained via the 3GPP Organizational Partners\' Publications
Offices.

> Keywords
>
> Radio, NR
>
> ***3GPP***
>
> Postal address
>
> 3GPP support office address
>
> 650 Route des Lucioles - Sophia Antipolis
>
> Valbonne - FRANCE
>
> Tel.: +33 4 92 94 42 00 Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16
>
> Internet
>
> http://www.3gpp.org

***Copyright Notification***

No part may be reproduced except as authorized by written permission.\
The copyright and the foregoing restriction extend to reproduction in
all media.

© 2019, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI,
TTA, TTC).

All rights reserved.

UMTS™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its members

3GPP™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners\
LTE™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners

GSM® and the GSM logo are registered and owned by the GSM Association

 Contents {#contents .TT}
========

Foreword 4

1 Scope 5

2 References 5

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 8

3.1 Definitions 8

3.2 Symbols 8

3.3 Abbreviations 9

4 Introduction 9

5 UE power saving schemes 10

5.1 UE adaptation to the traffic and power consumption characteristic 10

5.1.1 Adaptation to the variation in frequency 10

5.1.2 Adaptation to the variation in time 13

5.1.3 Adaptation to number of antenna 17

5.1.4 Adaptation to DRX operation 19

5.1.5 Adaptation to achieve reducing PDCCH monitoring/decoding 26

5.1.6 UE assistance Information 34

5.2 Power saving signal/channel/procedure for triggering adaptation to
UE power consumption 34

5.2.1 Power saving signal/channel 34

5.2.2 Power saving procedure 38

5.2.3 Additional RS 38

5.3 Power consumption reduction in RRM measurements 39

5.3.1 Adapting/Relaxing RRM measurement in time domain 40

5.3.2 Adapting/Relaxing intra-frequency measurements 46

5.3.3 Power saving schemes for RRM measurements with additional resource
49

5.3.4 Adapting/Relaxing inter-frequency measurements 53

6 Higher layer procedure for UE power saving 55

6.1 UE paging procedure based on power saving signal/channel/procedure
55

6.2 UE power saving procedure in transition from RRC\_CONNECTED to
RRC\_IDLE/RRC\_INACTIVE state 55

6.3 Higher layer procedures for the UE power saving schemes in
RRC\_CONNECTED 55

6.4 Higher layer procedures for power consumption reduction in RRM
measurements 55

7 Conclusions 55

8 Appendix -- Evaluation methodology 57

8.1 UE power consumption model 57

8.1.1 UE power consumption model for FR1 57

8.1.2 UE power consumption model for FR2 59

8.1.3 UE power consumption scaling for adaptation 60

8.1.4 UE power consumption model for RRM measurements 63

8.1.4.1 For intra-frequency measurements 63

8.1.4.2 For inter-frequency measurement 64

8.2 Simulation assumptions 64

Annex \<X\>: Change history 70

 Foreword
========

This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

 1 Scope
=======

The present document captures the findings of the study item, \"Study on
UE Power Saving in NR\" \[2\]. The purpose of this TR is to study the
**UE power saving framework taking into consideration of latency and
performance in NR as well as network impact. The study of UE power
saving in NR includes the study of the power saving schemes and the
associated procedures. The power saving schemes are to study the UE**
adaptation to the traffic and UE power consumption characteristics in
frequency, time, antenna domains, DRX configuration, and UE processing
timeline for UE power saving**. The power saving
signal/channel/procedure is used for triggering adaptation of UE power
consumption characteristic. The power saving study also considers UE
power consumption reduction in RRM measurements. The associated
procedures for the power saving schemes include the enhancement of UE
paging procedure based on the additional power saving
signal/channel/procedure and the UE power saving procedure in supporting
efficient transition from RRC\_CONNECTED to RRC\_IDLE/RRC\_INACTIVE
mode.**

This document is a \'living\' document, i.e. it is permanently updated
and presented to TSG-RAN meetings.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905 Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications

\[2\] 3GPP RP-181463 New SID: Study on UE Power Saving in NR

\[3\] 3GPP TR 38.913 Study on Scenarios and Requirements for Next
Generation Access Technologies

\[4\] 3GPP TR 38.802 Study on New Radio Access Technology - Physical
Layer Aspects

\[5\] 3GPP TS 38.814 Physical layer procedures for data

\[6\] R1-1813684 Calibration results for power saving study Huawei,
HiSilicon

\[7\] R1-1812329 Remaining aspects for evaluation methodology for power
saving vivo

\[8\] R1-1812360 Evaluation methodology for UE power saving MediaTek
Inc.

\[9\] R1-1813960 Discussion on evaluation methodology for UE power
consumption LG Electronics

\[10\] R1-1812640 Evaluation Methodology for UE Power Saving Scheme CATT

\[11\] R1-1813010 Evaluation Methodology for UE power saving Samsung

\[12\] R1-1813181 Evaluations and modeling of UE power consumption
Ericsson

\[13\] R1-1813446 UE Power Saving Evaluation Methodology Qualcomm
Incorporated

\[14\] R1-1814014 Evaluation methodology for UE power saving techniques
Intel Corporation

\[15\] R1-1814080 Consideration on UE power consumption model and
preliminary evaluation results ZTE

\[16\] R1-1900040 Power saving schemes Huawei, HiSilicon

\[17\] R1-1900145 Discussion on UE adaptation to the traffic and UE
power consumption characteristics vivo

\[18\] R1-1900192 Adaptation designs for NR UE power saving MediaTek
Inc.

\[19\] R1-1900226 On adaptation aspects for NR UE power consumption
reduction ZTE Corporation

\[20\] R1-1900305 UE Adaptation to the Traffic and UE Power Consumption
Characteristics OPPO

\[21\] R1-1900344 UE Power saving schemes with adaptation CATT

\[22\] R1-1900380 Power consumption adaptation for NR Sony

\[23\] R1-1900421 Discussion on UE power saving schemes with adaption to
UE traffic CMCC

\[24\] R1-1900508 UE adaptation to the traffic and UE power consumption
characteristics Intel Corporation

\[25\] R1-1900599 Discussion on UE adaptation to UE power consumption
characteristics LG Electronics

\[26\] R1-1900719 Discussion on UE adaptation to the traffic and UE
power consumption characteristics Spreadtrum Communications

\[27\] R1-1900753 Power saving techniques based on UE adaptation Apple
Inc.

\[28\] R1-1900813 On power saving techniques InterDigital, Inc.

\[29\] R1-1900818 PDSCH resource allocation restriction for power saving
ASUSTEK COMPUTER

\[30\] R1-1900911 UE Adaptation to the Traffic and UE Power Consumption
Characteristics Qualcomm

\[31\] R1-1900947 UE power saving schemes Motorola Mobility, Lenovo

\[32\] R1-1900980 Discussion on UE adaptation to the traffic and UE
power consumption characteristics NTT DOCOMO, INC.

\[33\] R1-1900992 Power saving during scheduling opportunity is sparse
NEC Corporation

\[34\] R1-1901087 On UE adaptation schemes Samsung

\[35\] R1-1901118 Discussion on UE traffic adaptation and power
consumption characteristics PANASONIC

\[36\] R1-1901166 Adaptation aspects of NR UE power saving Ericsson

\[37\] R1-1901188 On UE adaptation to the traffic Nokia, Nokia Shanghai
Bell

\[38\] R1-1900039 Remaining issues for evaluation methodology for UE
power saving Huawei, HiSilicon

\[39\] R1-1900144 Evaluation Results and remaining issues on evaluation
methodology for UE power saving vivo

\[40\] R1-1900191 Evaluation of NR power saving designs MediaTek Inc.

\[41\] R1-1901282 Evaluation results of UE power saving ZTE Corporation

\[42\] R1-1900304 Evaluation methodology for UE power saving OPPO

\[43\] R1-1900343 Evaluation Results of UE Power Saving Schemes CATT

\[44\] R1-1900379 Evaluation results for power saving study Sony

\[45\] R1-1900507 Evaluation results of UE power saving signals Intel
Corporation

\[46\] R1-1900598 Numerical results for UE power saving schemes LG
Electronics

\[47\] R1-1900752 Evaluation of UE power saving techniques Apple Inc.

\[48\] R1-1900910 Evaluation Methodology and Results for UE Power Saving
Qualcomm Incorporated

\[49\] R1-1901086 Evaluation results for UE power savings Samsung

\[50\] R1-1901165 Evaluations and modeling of UE power consumption
Ericsson

\[51\] R1-1901187 Initial evaluation results and consideration on DRX
settings Nokia, Nokia Shanghai Bell

\[52\] R1-1900041 Power saving signal/channel/procedure for triggering
adaptation Huawei, HiSilicon

\[53\] R1-1901245 Analysis and evaluation of go-to-sleep signaling
scheme Huawei, HiSilicon.

\[54\] R1-1901246 Analysis and evaluation of wake up signaling scheme
Huawei, HiSilicon.

\[55\] R1-1900754 Power Saving Techniques based on Explicit Network
Indication, Apple

\[56\] R1-1900381 Power Consumption Triggering for NR, Sony

\[57\] R1-1901571 Evaluation results of UE power saving Huawei,
HiSilicon

\[58\] R1-1901709 Detailed Evaluation Results for UE power saving vivo

\[59\] R1-1901803 Evaluation results for NR power saving designs
MediaTek Inc.

\[60\] R1-1902024 Evaluation Results of UE Power Saving Schemes CATT

\[61\] R1-1902030 Evaluation results of UE power consumption ZTE
Corporation

\[62\] R1-1902052 Numerical results for UE power saving schemes LG
Electronics

\[63\] R1-1902185 Evaluation results for power saving techniques Sony

\[64\] R1-1902317 Evaluation results on UE power saving Samsung

\[65\] R1-1902507 System level evaluation of UE power saving schemes
Intel Corporation

\[66\] R1-1902618 Evaluation of UE Power Saving Techniques InterDigital,
Inc.

\[67\] R1-1902734 Remaining issues on evaluation methodology for UE
power saving Spreadtrum Communications

\[68\] R1-1902770 Evaluation of UE power saving techniques Apple Inc.

\[69\] R1-1902934 Evaluations and modeling of UE power consumption
Ericsson

\[70\] R1-1903374 Evaluation Methodology and Results for UE Power Saving
Qualcomm Incorporated

\[71\] R1-1903133 Comparison of DRX with WUS and GTS schemes Nokia,
Nokia Shanghai Bell

\[72\] R1-1901572 Power saving schemes Huawei, HiSilicon

\[73\] R1-1901710 UE adaptation to traffic and power consumption
characteristics vivo

\[74\] R1-1903353 NR UE power saving designs MediaTek Inc.

\[75\] R1-1902025 UE Power saving schemes and power saving
signal/channel CATT

\[76\] R1-1902031 Discussion on potential techniques for UE power saving
ZTE Corporation

\[77\] R1-1902053 Discussion on potential techniques for UE power saving
LG Electronics

\[78\] R1-1902186 Power saving techniques for NR Sony

\[79\] R1-1902318 On UE power saving techniques Samsung

\[80\] R1-1903344 Discussion on UE power saving schemes with adaption to
UE traffic CMCC

\[81\] R1-1902508 On potential techniques for UE power saving Intel
Corporation

\[82\] R1-1902735 Discussion on potential techniques for UE power saving
Spreadtrum Communications

\[83\] R1-1902745 UE Adaptation to the Traffic and UE Power Consumption
Characteristics OPPO

\[84\] R1-1902771 UE power saving techniques Apple Inc.

\[85\] R1-1902935 Techniques for NR UE power saving Ericsson

\[86\] R1-1903016 Potential Techniques for UE Power Saving Qualcomm
Incorporated

\[87\] R1-1903134 On UE adaptation to the traffic Nokia, Nokia Shanghai
Bell

\[88\] R1-1903430 Power consumption reduction in RRM measurements
Huawei, HiSilicon

\[89\] R1-1901711 UE power saving in RRM Measurements vivo

\[90\] R1-1903354 NR RRM UE power saving MediaTek Inc.

\[91\] R1-1902026 UE Power saving scheme for RRM measurements CATT

\[92\] R1-1902032 On UE Power Saving for RRM Measurement ZTE Corporation

\[93\] R1-1902187 Power consumption reduction in RRM measurements Sony

\[94\] R1-1903236 Discussion on UE power Consumption Reduction in RRM
Measurements NTT DOCOMO,

\[95\] R1-1902936 RRM aspects of NR UE power saving Ericsson

\[96\] R1-1903017 UE Power Consumption Reduction in RRM Measurements
Qualcomm Incorporated

\[97\] R1-1903136 UE Power Consumption Reduction in RRM Measurements
Nokia, Nokia Shanghai Bell

\[98\] R1-1903194 Calibration results for power saving study Huawei,
HiSilicon

\[99\] R1-1903137 Considerations for limiting the PDCCH blind decoding
candidates Nokia, Nokia Shanghai Bell

\[100\] R1-1903831 Email discussion summary of \[96-NR-11\]: observation
for reducing RRM measurement for SSBs by considering adjacent
directional beams vivo

\[101\] R2-1908127 RAN2 impacts when introducing a DCI-based mechanism
to skip the PDCCH monitoring Intel Corporation

\[102\] R2-1906493 Is PDCCH skipping really needed Beijing Xiaomi Mobile
Software discussion

\[103\] R2-1905962 Evaluation on the mobility impact for RRM measurement
relaxation vivo

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

3.2 Symbols
-----------

For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:

\<symbol\> \<Explanation\>

3.3 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

PDCCH Physical Dedicated Control CHannel

4 Introduction
==============

UE battery life is an important aspect of the user\'s experience, which
will influence the adoption of 5G NR handsets and/or services. It is
critical to study UE power consumption to ensure that UE power
efficiency for 5G NR UEs can be better than that of LTE, and techniques
and designs for improvements are identified and adopted.

ITU-R defines energy efficiency as one of the minimum technical
performance requirements for IMT-2020. According to ITU-R report --
Minimum requirements related to technical performance for IMT-2020 radio
interface(s), \"energy efficiency of the device can relate to the
support for the following two aspects: a) Efficient data transmission in
a loaded case; b) Low energy consumption when there is no data.
Efficient data transmission in a loaded case is demonstrated by the
average spectral efficiency. Low energy consumption when there is no
data can be estimated by the sleep ratio\".

Because NR system supports high speed data transport, the bursty user
data would be served by network in very short durations. One efficient
UE power saving mechanism is to trigger UE for network access from power
efficient mode. UE would stay in the power efficient mode, such as micro
sleep or OFF period in the long DRX cycle, unless it is informed of
network access through UE power saving framework. Alternatively, network
can assist the UE to switch from the \"network access\" mode to the
\"power efficient\" mode when there is no traffic to deliver, e.g.
dynamic UE transition to sleep with network assistance signal.

**In addition to minimizing the power consumption with the new wake
up/go-to-sleep mechanism, it is equally importance to reduce the power
consumption during the network access in RRC\_CONNECTED mode. More than
half of the power consumption in LTE is UE in the access mode. The power
saving scheme would focus on minimizing the dominate factor of power
consumption during the network access, which includes the processing of
aggregated bandwidth, number of active RF chains and active
reception/transmission time, and dynamic transition to power efficient
mode. From the field data collected in the LTE network, most of
subframes contain no data or small data. The power saving scheme for the
dynamic adaptation to the different data arrival should be studied in
RRC\_CONNECTED mode.** Dynamic adaptation to traffic in different
dimensions, such as carrier, antenna, beamforming, and bandwidth, would
be studied in the studied. Furthermore, methods to enhance the
transitions between \"network access\" mode and power efficient mode
should be considered. Both network-assisted and UE-assisted approaches
should be considered for UE power saving mechanism.

UE also consumes a lot of power for RRM measurements. In particular, UE
would need to power up before the DRX ON period to track the channel in
preparation for the RRM measurement. Some of the RRM measurements are
not necessary but consumes a lot of UE power, for example, the low
mobility UEs does not have to measure as frequent as high mobility UEs.
Network would provide the signalling to assist UE to reduce the power
consumption on unnecessary RRM measurements. Additional UE assistance,
for example the UE status information, etc, is also useful for the
network to enable the UE power consumption reduction on RRM
measurements.

The study of UE power saving is to identify the feasibility and benefit
of techniques to allow UE implementations which can operate with reduced
power consumption. **The study of the UE power saving framework would
also take into consideration of latency and performance in NR as well as
network impact.**

5 UE power saving schemes
=========================

5.1 UE adaptation to the traffic and power consumption characteristic
---------------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.1.1 Adaptation to the variation in frequency

The UE BWP adaptation is to dynamically switch the BWP by gNB based on,
e.g., the traffic to support efficient operation of BWP switching in
reducing the UE power consumption.

The UE adaptation to the CA/DC is to fast activation/deactivation of the
SCell by gNB based on, e.g., the traffic to support efficient operation
for fast SCell activation/deactivation in achieving UE power saving.

The UE power saving schemes for the UE adaptation in frequency domain in
the study are as follows,

\- BWP - UE adaptation to different BWP

\- RS to assist UE channel tracking and measurements to assist BWP
switching

\- The assistance may also include CSI measurements (UE supports and
processes one BWP at a time)

\- Enhancement of L1 signaling, e.g., power saving signal or DCI for
power saving, in triggering the BWP switching

\- Association of BWP and DRX

\- UE assistance information could be considered

Table 1: Power saving schemes with UE adaptation to the BWP switching

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Co    | Power | Power | Power | U     | Esti  | Evalu | Note  |
| mpany | s     | s     | s     | PT/La | mated | ation |       |
|       | aving | aving | aving | tency | Ove   | metho | (in   |
|       | s     | gain  | gain  |       | rhead | dolog | clude |
|       | cheme |       | for   |       |       | y/bas | UE    |
|       |       |       | each  |       |       | eline | t     |
|       |       |       | con   |       |       | assum | hroug |
|       |       |       | figur |       |       | ption | hput) |
|       |       |       | ation |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| **Med | R     | 23.5% | FTP/V | La    | RU    | SLS   | A     |
| iaTek | el-15 | \~    | ideo: | tency | incr  |       | lar   |
| \[18\ | DCI   | 31.4% | 2     | Incr  | ease: | CDRX  | ge-BW |
| ]\[40 | and   |       | 3.54% | ease: |       | co    | BWP   |
| \]\[5 | timer |       |       |       | FTP/V | nfig: | of    |
| 9\]** | based |       | IM:   | FTP/V | ideo: |       | 100   |
|       | BWP   |       | 2     | ideo: | -     | FTP/  | MHz,  |
|       | swit  |       | 4.79% | 3.98% | 0.55% | Video | a     |
|       | ching |       |       |       |       | (160, | sma   |
|       | with  |       | VoIP: | IM:   | IM:   | 100,  | ll-BW |
|       | A-CSI |       | 3     | 1.91% | 1.29% | 8)    | BWP   |
|       | after |       | 1.42% |       |       |       | of 20 |
|       | swit  |       |       | VoIP: | VoIP: | IM    | MHz   |
|       | ching |       |       | -     | 0%    | (320, | and a |
|       | to a  |       |       | 0.07% |       | 80,   | 20-ms |
|       | larg  |       |       |       |       | 10)   | BWP   |
|       | er-BW |       |       |       |       |       | timer |
|       | BWP   |       |       |       |       | VoIP  | are   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (40,  | as    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 10,   | sumed |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4)    | for   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | IM    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | FTP/V |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ideo. |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | For   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | VoIP, |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | sma   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ll-BW |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | BWP   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | of 20 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | MHz   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | is    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | a     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | lways |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | app   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | lied. |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| *     | Adapt | 9% \~ | 30%   | Av    | Mar   | Nume  |       |
| *vivo | ation | 45%   | for   | erage | ginal | rical |       |
| \[5   | in    |       | CDRX  | p     |       | simul |       |
| 8\]** | freq  |       |       | acket |       | ation |       |
|       | uency |       |       | lat   |       |       |       |
|       | d     |       |       | ency: |       | Bas   |       |
|       | omain |       |       | 16.   |       | eline |       |
|       | (UE   |       |       | 83ms; |       | a     |       |
|       | re    |       |       |       |       | ssump |       |
|       | ports |       |       | La    |       | tion: |       |
|       | its   |       |       | tency |       | The   |       |
|       | pref  |       |       | incr  |       | BWP   |       |
|       | erred |       |       | ease: |       | is    |       |
|       | BWP), |       |       | 0%    |       | a     |       |
|       | eval  |       |       |       |       | lways |       |
|       | uated |       |       |       |       | 10    |       |
|       | for   |       |       |       |       | 0MHz; |       |
|       | g     |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | aming |       |       |       |       | Tr    |       |
|       | a     |       |       |       |       | affic |       |
|       | pplic |       |       |       |       | m     |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       | odel: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | g     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | aming |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CDRX  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nfig: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (40,  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 10,4) |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | 45%   | Av    |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | for   | erage |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | Fixed | p     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | PDCCH | acket |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | monit | lat   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | oring | ency: |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | p     | 0     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | eriod | .5ms; |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | icity |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | (0    | La    |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | .5ms) | tency |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | incr  |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ease: |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 0%    |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | 9%    | Av    |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | for   | erage |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | Fixed | p     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | PDCCH | acket |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | monit | lat   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | oring | ency: |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | p     | 20.   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | eriod | 30ms; |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | icity |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | (     | La    |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 40ms) | tency |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | incr  |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ease: |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 0%    |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **CAT | Power | 25.2% | ftp3  | Avg.  | 7     | SLS   |       |
| T\[21 | s     | \~    | with  | UPT   | .14%, | with  |       |
| \]\[6 | aving | 55.0% | 160ms | loss  | 14    | 10UE  |       |
| 0\]** | s     |       | DRX-c | 17.1% | .29%, | per   |       |
|       | ignal | (8.5% | ycle: | (FTP3 | 2     | TRP   |       |
|       | tr    | \~    | 25.2% | λ     | 1.4%. | for   |       |
|       | igger | 26%   |       | =3.2) |       | DU    |       |
|       | BWP   | for   | IM    |       | .     | sce   |       |
|       | ada   | R     | with  |       |       | nario |       |
|       | ption | el-15 | 320ms |       |       | to    |       |
|       | with  | n     | DRX-c |       |       | get   |       |
|       | the   | arrow | ycle: |       |       | tr    |       |
|       | addit | vs    | 55.0% |       |       | ansmi |       |
|       | ional | full  |       |       |       | ssion |       |
|       | RS    | BW    | ftp3  |       |       | rate, |       |
|       | (PS-  | switc | with  |       |       | and   |       |
|       | RS)   | hing) | 160ms |       |       | obs   |       |
|       |       |       | DRX-  |       |       | erved |       |
|       |       |       | cycle |       |       | one   |       |
|       |       |       | (R    |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       | el-15 |       |       | ingle |       |
|       |       |       | n     |       |       | UE    |       |
|       |       |       | arrow |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       | vs    |       |       | power |       |
|       |       |       | full  |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       | BW    |       |       | nsump |       |
|       |       |       | BWP   |       |       | tion. |       |
|       |       |       | s     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | witch |       |       | Base  |       |
|       |       |       | ing): |       |       | line: |       |
|       |       |       | 8.5%  |       |       | PDCCH |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | m     |       |
|       |       |       | IM    |       |       | onito |       |
|       |       |       | with  |       |       | ring, |       |
|       |       |       | 320ms |       |       | CSI   |       |
|       |       |       | DRX-  |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       | cycle |       |       | PDSCH |       |
|       |       |       | (R    |       |       | rece  |       |
|       |       |       | el-15 |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       | n     |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       | arrow |       |       | wider |       |
|       |       |       | vs    |       |       | BW,   |       |
|       |       |       | full  |       |       | FTP3  |       |
|       |       |       | BW    |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       | BWP   |       |       | 0.5M  |       |
|       |       |       | s     |       |       | bytes |       |
|       |       |       | witch |       |       | p     |       |
|       |       |       | ing): |       |       | acket |       |
|       |       |       | 26%   |       |       | size  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 200ms |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | int   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | er-ar |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rival |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | time, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IM    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 0.1M  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bytes |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | p     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | acket |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | size  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2s    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | int   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | er-ar |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rival |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | time  |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **    | 1\)   | 33 \~ | 0dBm  |       |       | Evalu | Power |
| Apple | When  | 45%   | case  |       |       | ation | s     |
| \[68  | UE    |       |       |       |       | M     | aving |
| \]\[8 | knows |       | 0.1MB |       |       | ethod | gain  |
| 4\]** | total |       | : 68% |       |       | =     | in    |
|       | size  |       |       |       |       | Nume  | each  |
|       | of    |       | 0.5MB |       |       | rical | file  |
|       | file  |       | : 64% |       |       | S     | size  |
|       | to    |       |       |       |       | imula | is    |
|       | dow   |       | 2M :  |       |       | tion, | com   |
|       | nload |       | 46%   |       |       |       | puted |
|       | /     |       |       |       |       | UE    | ag    |
|       | up    |       | 4M :  |       |       | co    | ainst |
|       | load, |       | 34%   |       |       | ntinu | the   |
|       | it    |       |       |       |       | ously | band  |
|       | can   |       | 23dBm |       |       | mon   | width |
|       | est   |       | case  |       |       | itors | cons  |
|       | imate |       |       |       |       | P     | uming |
|       | power |       | 0.1MB |       |       | DCCH, | hi    |
|       | effi  |       | : 51% |       |       |       | ghest |
|       | cient |       |       |       |       | No    | power |
|       | BWP   |       | 0.5MB |       |       | CDRX  | in    |
|       | s     |       | : 33% |       |       | ass   | each  |
|       | izes. |       |       |       |       | umed. | file  |
|       |       |       | 2MB : |       |       |       | size. |
|       | 2\)   |       | 61%   |       |       | No    |       |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       | GTS   |       |
|       | can   |       | 4MB : |       |       | ass   |       |
|       | ind   |       | 53%   |       |       | umed. |       |
|       | icate |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | its   |       |       |       |       | 4Mbps |       |
|       | pref  |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       | erred |       |       |       |       | 0.1MB |       |
|       | BWP   |       |       |       |       | file  |       |
|       | con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | figur |       |       |       |       | 2     |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       | 0Mbps |       |
|       | to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | gNB.  |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 0.5MB |       |
|       | 3\)   |       |       |       |       | file  |       |
|       | gNB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | conf  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | igure |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | with  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | BWPs  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | which |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | was   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | deter |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | mined |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | based |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | on    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE\'s |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | recom |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | menda |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | tion. |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 4\)   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | File  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | tra   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | nsfer |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | o     |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ccurs |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | with  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | confi |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | gured |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | BWPs. |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **    | 1\)   | 16 %  | 16%   |       |       | Evalu | Power |
| Apple | When  |       |       |       |       | ation | s     |
| \[68  | UE    |       |       |       |       | M     | aving |
| \]\[8 | knows |       |       |       |       | ethod | gain  |
| 4\]** | the   |       |       |       |       | =     | in    |
|       | total |       |       |       |       | Nume  | each  |
|       | size  |       |       |       |       | rical | file  |
|       | of    |       |       |       |       | Simul | size  |
|       | file  |       |       |       |       | ation | is    |
|       | to    |       |       |       |       |       | com   |
|       | dow   |       |       |       |       | UE    | puted |
|       | nload |       |       |       |       | co    | ag    |
|       | /     |       |       |       |       | ntinu | ainst |
|       | up    |       |       |       |       | ously | the   |
|       | load, |       |       |       |       | mon   | band  |
|       | it    |       |       |       |       | itors | width |
|       | can   |       |       |       |       | P     | cons  |
|       | est   |       |       |       |       | DCCH, | uming |
|       | imate |       |       |       |       |       | hi    |
|       | power |       |       |       |       | CDRX  | ghest |
|       | effi  |       |       |       |       | (160, | p     |
|       | cient |       |       |       |       | 100,  | ower. |
|       | BWP   |       |       |       |       | 8) ms |       |
|       | s     |       |       |       |       | ass   |       |
|       | izes. |       |       |       |       | umed. |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 2\)   |       |       |       |       | No    |       |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       | GTS   |       |
|       | can   |       |       |       |       | as    |       |
|       | ind   |       |       |       |       | sumed |       |
|       | icate |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | its   |       |       |       |       | F     |       |
|       | pref  |       |       |       |       | TP3(0 |       |
|       | erred |       |       |       |       | .5MB, |       |
|       | BWP   |       |       |       |       | 0.2s) |       |
|       | con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | figur |       |       |       |       | 2     |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       | 0Mbps |       |
|       | to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | gNB.  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 3\)   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | gNB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | conf  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | igure |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | with  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | BWPs  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | which |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | was   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | deter |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | mined |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | based |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | on    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE\'s |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | recom |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | menda |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | tion. |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 4\)   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | File  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | tra   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | nsfer |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | o     |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ccurs |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | with  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | confi |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | gured |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | BWPs. |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 5\)   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | BWP   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | swit  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ching |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | DRX   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ena   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | bled. |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

Observation:

Rel-15 DCI and timer based BWP adaptation between full bandwidth and a
narrow bandwidth can achieve power saving gain in the range 8.5% - 31%.
The power saving schemes with UE adaptation to BWP bandwidth show 16% -
45% power saving gain if suitable BWP bandwidth is applied. The power
saving schemes with UE adaptation to BWP switching show the power saving
gains ranged from 8.5% - 45% from the Rel-15 BWP operation without
adaptation. The higher power saving gain of 45% comes from suitable BWP
adaptation, e.g., selection of BWP based on UE assistance information.
Smaller power saving of 8.5% is provided from one source, assuming 15-ms
CSI acquisition delay for the DCI triggering BWP adaptation. The average
latency increase of the power saving schemes is up to 4%. One source
showed that the power saving signal triggering BWP switching with
additional RS for CSI measurements shows 17%-29% power saving gains in
relation to Rel-15 BWP adaptation with UPT improvement of 17% and 7-21%
overhead.

\- CA/DC --

\- Quick activation/de-activation (e.g.,L1 signaling, MAC CE
enhancement)

\- Adaptation of PDCCH monitoring/search space on activated SCell

\- Including cross carrier scheduling

\- Adaptation based on the operation in a group of cells in power
efficient way

\- Including group of cells in bundle operation

\- CSI/RRM measurements and beam management at non-active SCell

\- UE assistance information could be considered

\- Including the combined operation with the BWP switching

Table 2: Power saving schemes for SCell operation

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| *     | **    | **    | **    | **UPT | *     | **    | **N   |
| *Comp | Power | Power | Power | /Late | *Esti | Evalu | ote** |
| any** | s     | s     | s     | ncy** | mated | ation |       |
|       | aving | aving | aving |       | Overh | metho | **(in |
|       | sch   | g     | gain  |       | ead** | dolog | clude |
|       | eme** | ain** | for   |       |       | y/bas | UE    |
|       |       |       | each  |       |       | eline | thr   |
|       |       |       | confi |       |       | as    | oughp |
|       |       |       | gurat |       |       | sumpt | ut)** |
|       |       |       | ion** |       |       | ion** |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| **Med | BWP-  | Total | Total | La    | RU    | SLS   | 1\.   |
| iaTek | based | Sa    | sa    | tency | incr  |       | Backg |
| \[18\ | SCell | ving: | ving: | incr  | ease: | CDRX  | round |
| ]\[40 | power |       |       | ease: |       | co    | tr    |
| \]\[5 | s     | 21.1% | FTP/V |       | FTP/V | nfig: | affic |
| 9\]** | aving | \~    | ideo: | FTP/V | ideo: |       | of    |
|       | and   | 27.7% | 21.1% | ideo: | -     | FTP/  | p     |
|       | bu    |       |       | -0    | 1.23% | Video | acket |
|       | ndled | SCell | IM:   | .675% |       | (160, | size  |
|       | BWP   | sa    | 27.7% |       | IM:   | 100,  | 256   |
|       | swit  | ving: |       | IM:   | 0%    | 8)    | bits  |
|       | ching |       | SCell | 1.60% |       |       | and   |
|       |       | 5     | sa    |       |       | IM    | mean  |
|       |       | 1.18% | ving: |       |       | (320, | ar    |
|       |       | \~    |       |       |       | 80,   | rival |
|       |       | 6     | FTP/V |       |       | 10)   | time  |
|       |       | 7.33% | ideo: |       |       |       | 200   |
|       |       |       | 5     |       |       |       | ms is |
|       |       |       | 1.18% |       |       |       | added |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |
|       |       |       | IM:   |       |       |       | the   |
|       |       |       | 6     |       |       |       | tr    |
|       |       |       | 7.33% |       |       |       | affic |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | mo    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | dels. |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 2\.   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | The   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | SCell |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | BWP   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | trans |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ition |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | fo    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | llows |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | BWP   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | trans |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ition |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | P     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | Cell. |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **H   | Trigg | 3.91% | 3.91% | 0.71\ | none  | SLS   | S     |
| uawei | ering | \~    | \~    | ~2.5% |       |       | ingle |
| \[5   | SCe   | 2     | 1     |       |       | CDRX  | UE in |
| 7\]** | ll(s) | 4.16% | 3.76% |       |       | co    | a     |
|       | PDCCH |       | for   |       |       | nfig: | cell. |
|       | monit |       | (P    |       |       | (160, |       |
|       | oring |       | acket |       |       | 100,  | 4     |
|       | by    |       | size  |       |       | 8),   | acti  |
|       | sta   |       | /     |       |       | (160, | vated |
|       | rting |       | ar    |       |       | 40,   | CCs.  |
|       | of    |       | rival |       |       | 8),   |       |
|       | Inact |       | rate) |       |       | (40,  | A     |
|       | ivity |       | =(0.5 |       |       | 25,   | sc    |
|       | Timer |       | /200) |       |       | 4),   | aling |
|       | on    |       |       |       |       | (40,  | f     |
|       | PCell |       | 1     |       |       | 10,   | actor |
|       |       |       | 9.13% |       |       | 4)    | of    |
|       |       |       | \~    |       |       |       | 0.2   |
|       |       |       | 2     |       |       | P     | is    |
|       |       |       | 4.16% |       |       | acket | as    |
|       |       |       | for   |       |       | size  | sumed |
|       |       |       | (P    |       |       | /     | for   |
|       |       |       | acket |       |       | ar    | each  |
|       |       |       | size  |       |       | rival | acti  |
|       |       |       | /     |       |       | rate  | vated |
|       |       |       | ar    |       |       | (M    | SCell |
|       |       |       | rival |       |       | bytes | wi    |
|       |       |       | rate) |       |       | /     | thout |
|       |       |       | =     |       |       | ms):  | PDCCH |
|       |       |       | (0.1/ |       |       | 0.5   | m     |
|       |       |       | 2000) |       |       | /200, | onito |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 0.1   | ring. |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | /2000 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | La    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | tency |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | incre |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | asing |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | sults |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | are   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | obt   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ained |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | by    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ystem |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | anal  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ysis. |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       | 1.82% | 1.82% | 0     | none  | Same  | 2     |
|       |       | \~    | \~    | .86\~ |       | as    | acti  |
|       |       | 1     | 5.40% | 2.89% |       | first | vated |
|       |       | 2.23% | for   |       |       | case  | CCs.  |
|       |       |       | (P    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | acket |       |       |       | Other |
|       |       |       | size  |       |       |       | a     |
|       |       |       | /     |       |       |       | ssump |
|       |       |       | ar    |       |       |       | tions |
|       |       |       | rival |       |       |       | are   |
|       |       |       | rate) |       |       |       | same  |
|       |       |       | =(0.5 |       |       |       | as    |
|       |       |       | /200) |       |       |       | first |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | case  |
|       |       |       | 7.67% |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | \~    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 2.23% |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | (P    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | acket |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | size  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ar    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | rival |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | rate) |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | =     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | (0.1/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 2000) |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       | 2.73% | 2.73% | 0.    | none  | Same  | 10    |
|       |       | \~    | \~    | 09%\~ |       | as    | UEs   |
|       |       | 1     | 9.79% | 2.62% |       | first | in a  |
|       |       | 6.11% | for   |       |       | case  | cell. |
|       |       |       | (P    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | acket |       |       |       | Other |
|       |       |       | size  |       |       |       | a     |
|       |       |       | /     |       |       |       | ssump |
|       |       |       | ar    |       |       |       | tions |
|       |       |       | rival |       |       |       | are   |
|       |       |       | rate) |       |       |       | same  |
|       |       |       | =(0.5 |       |       |       | as    |
|       |       |       | /200) |       |       |       | first |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | case  |
|       |       |       | 1     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 2.36% |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | \~    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 6.11% |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | (P    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | acket |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | size  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ar    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | rival |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | rate) |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | =     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | (0.1/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 2000) |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **Sa  | (De)  | 5     | Acti  | 83    | DCI   | Nume  | S     |
| msung | activ | 7.75% | vated | 8.6Mb | based | rical | ingle |
| \[34  | ation |       | CCs   | ps/1. | power | simul | UE.   |
| \]\[6 | of    | 38.7% | ad    | 04ms, | s     | ation |       |
| 4\]** | SCell |       | apted |       | aving |       | One   |
|       |       |       | from  | 867   | s     | No    | PDSCH |
|       |       |       | 4 to  | Mbps/ | ignal | C     | over  |
|       |       |       | 1.    | 1.0ms | with  | -DRX, | 10    |
|       |       |       |       |       | m     |       | sy    |
|       |       |       | Acti  |       | onito | FTP3  | mbols |
|       |       |       | vated |       | ring, | tr    | in    |
|       |       |       | CCs   |       | T =   | affic | one   |
|       |       |       | ad    |       | 1     | model | slot  |
|       |       |       | apted |       | 024ms | with  | is    |
|       |       |       | from  |       |       | mean  | ca    |
|       |       |       | 4 to  |       |       | of    | pable |
|       |       |       | 2.    |       |       | inter | of    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | p     | car   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | acket | rying |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | arr   | 8     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ivals | 68584 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | = 4ms | i     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | nform |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | bits. |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | Cro   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ss-ca |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | rrier |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | sched |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | uling |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | Mi    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | nimum |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | sched |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | uling |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | delay |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | =     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 0     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | .5ms. |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | (also |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | as    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | sumed |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | acti  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | vatio |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | n/dea |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ctiva |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | tion) |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **    | 1\)   | 5% \~ | 43%   |       |       | Evalu | Note  |
| Apple | In    | 43%   | for   |       |       | ation | that  |
| \[68  | cases |       | 1MB   |       |       | M     | both  |
| \]\[8 | UE is |       | file  |       |       | ethod | bas   |
| 4\]** | aware |       | with  |       |       | =     | eline |
|       | of    |       | No    |       |       | Nume  | and   |
|       | total |       | CDRX  |       |       | rical | pro   |
|       | size  |       |       |       |       | Simul | posed |
|       | of    |       | 7%    |       |       | ation | sc    |
|       | file  |       | for   |       |       |       | hemes |
|       | (     |       | 5MB   |       |       | Bas   | have  |
|       | e.g., |       | file  |       |       | eline | no    |
|       | v     |       | with  |       |       | con   | i     |
|       | ideo, |       | No    |       |       | figur | mpact |
|       | app)  |       | CDRX  |       |       | ation | on    |
|       | to    |       |       |       |       | with  | user  |
|       | u     |       | 17%   |       |       | 2 CC, | throu |
|       | pload |       | for   |       |       | 1     | ghput |
|       | or    |       | 1MB   |       |       | HARQ  | since |
|       | down  |       | file  |       |       | pro   | the   |
|       | load, |       | with  |       |       | cess, | SCell |
|       | UE    |       | CDRX  |       |       | gNB   | de    |
|       | can   |       |       |       |       | d     | activ |
|       | a     |       | 5%    |       |       | eacti | ation |
|       | dvise |       | for   |       |       | vates | kicks |
|       | gNB   |       | 5MB   |       |       | S     | in    |
|       | how   |       | file  |       |       | Cells | after |
|       | many  |       | with  |       |       | after | file  |
|       | S     |       | CDRX  |       |       | SCell | d     |
|       | cells |       |       |       |       | de    | ownlo |
|       | it    |       |       |       |       | activ | ading |
|       | needs |       |       |       |       | ation | is    |
|       | or    |       |       |       |       | timer | fini  |
|       | when  |       |       |       |       | value | shed. |
|       | to    |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       | act   |       |       |       |       | 320ms |       |
|       | ivate |       |       |       |       | exp   |       |
|       | /     |       |       |       |       | ires. |       |
|       | deact |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ivate |       |       |       |       | CDRX  |       |
|       | SC    |       |       |       |       | =     |       |
|       | ells. |       |       |       |       | (320, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 200,  |       |
|       | 2\)   |       |       |       |       | 10)   |       |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       | ms    |       |
|       | sends |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | SCell |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | de    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | activ |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | quest |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ne    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | twork |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | when  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | file  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | d     |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ownlo |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ading |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | fini  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | shed. |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 3a)   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | Wi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | thout |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | DRX,  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | foll  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | owing |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | dea   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ctiva |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | tion, |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | gNB   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | can   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | i     |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | mmedi |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ately |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | move  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | RRC   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | INA   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | CTIVE |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | or    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | IDLE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | s     |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | tate. |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 3b)   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | With  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | CDRX  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | case, |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | e     |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | nters |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | CDRX  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | mode. |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **Qua | SCell | 32%   | \#1)  | Av    | Signa | Me    | > *-* |
| lcomm | Dor   |       | 33.6% | erage | lling | thod: | >     |
| \[48  | mancy |       |       | la    | ove   | SLS   |  Gain |
| \]\[7 |       |       | \#2)  | tency | rhead |       | > in  |
| 0\]** | (e.g. |       | 32.7% | inc   | due   | FR2.  | > av  |
|       | based |       |       | rease | to    | DL-   | erage |
|       | on    |       | 1     |       | trans | only, | >     |
|       | do    |       | -slot | \#1)  | ition | No    | power |
|       | rmant |       | PDCCH | 0.38% | com   | CDRX  | > co  |
|       | BWP,  |       | p     |       | mands |       | nsump |
|       | or    |       | eriod | \#2)  |       | Tr    | tion. |
|       | semi- |       | icity | 0.73% |       | affic | >     |
|       | persi |       | re    |       |       | m     | > *-* |
|       | stent |       | sults |       |       | odel: | > Bas |
|       | s     |       | s     |       |       | FTP3  | eline |
|       | earch |       | hown. |       |       |       | > lat |
|       | space |       | Other |       |       | Max   | ency: |
|       | co    |       | set   |       |       | 4CC   | > 2   |
|       | nfig) |       | tings |       |       |       | 0.3ms |
|       |       |       | avai  |       |       | Trans | >     |
|       |       |       | lable |       |       | ition | > *-* |
|       |       |       | in    |       |       | delay | >     |
|       |       |       | tdoc. |       |       | as    | Addit |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sumpt | ional |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ions: | > la  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | tency |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \#1)  | > is  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Trans | > due |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ition | > to  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | De    | >     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lay=1 | trans |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | slot  | ition |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | >     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (     | delay |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ideal | >     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | a     | > *-* |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssump | > Tr  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion) | affic |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | > s   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \#2)  | cales |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Trans | >     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ition |  with |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | De    | > n   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lay=6 | umber |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | slots | > of  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | > car |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (real | riers |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | istic | >     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | a     | > *-* |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssump | > 10  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion) | > UEs |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | > in  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | > s   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ystem |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

Observation:

The power saving schemes for SCell operation show 12% - 57.75% power
saving gain if the baseline settings exhibit a large amount of PDCCH
monitoring without data scheduling due to sporadic traffic or long data
inactivity in SCell(s). Smaller power saving gain in the range of 2%-7%
is observed for the case of less PDCCH monitoring without data
scheduling in SCell(s). The average latency increase is in the range of
0.1% - 2.6%. One source reports that the corresponding additional
overhead in terms of DL resource usage is negligible.

### 5.1.2 Adaptation to the variation in time 

The UE power saving schemes with UE adaptation to the traffic arrival in
the time domain includes cross slot scheduling, single slot scheduling
with a gap between PDCCH and PDSCH reception, and multi-slot scheduling.
For both cross-slot scheduling and single slot scheduling, the UE may
achieve power consumption by switching to micro sleep after PDCCH
reception. For multi-slot scheduling, the UE may achieve power
consumption by skipping the PDCCH monitoring at subsequent slots of
PDSCH/PUSCH transmission.

\- Cross-slot scheduling

\- Minimum K0 \> 0 and aperiodic CSI-RS triggering offset is not within
the duration - UE could switch to micro sleep after PDCCH reception --
no addition PDSCH and CSI-RS signals reception within the given duration
(e.g. the same slot)

\- It is known to the UE at PDCCH decoding

\- Extended micro sleep time and reduce the PDCCH processing in reducing
UE power consumption

\- Minimum K2 \> 0 is essential to avoid the requirements of fast PDCCH
processing

\- UE assistance information can be considered

\- The general procedure for the study of the power saving scheme when
cross-slot scheduling is used

\- gNB semi-statically configures TDRA to the UE, subject to UE
capability (if any)

\- All schedulable TDRA values have K0 \> = x and K2 \>= x where x \> 0

\- Determination of value x is FFS (which may also be done in the WI
phase), e.g., may also be impacted by BWP switching triggered by DCI
(jointly with cross-slot scheduling, if supported), etc.

\- All aperiodic CSI-RS triggering offsets are not smaller than the
value x

\- UE decodes PDCCH and retrieves the index of schedulable TDRA
value~~s~~

\- UE could go to micro sleep after reception of last PDCCH symbol

\- UE processes PDSCH at the indicated starting time from TDRA
value~~s~~

\- Note: DRX cycle assumed in the evaluation results summarized in the
table below is not necessary long DRX cycle; detailed DRX cycle
assumption can be found in each reference

\- The following table is subject to further update, particularly
regarding evaluation results/assumptions

Table 3: Power saving scheme with cross-slot scheduling

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><strong>Company</strong></th>
<th><strong>Power saving scheme</strong></th>
<th><strong>Power saving gain</strong></th>
<th><strong>Power saving gain for each configuration</strong></th>
<th><strong>UPT/Latency</strong></th>
<th><strong>Estimated Overhead</strong></th>
<th><strong>Evaluation methodology/baseline assumption</strong></th>
<th><p><strong>Note</strong></p>
<p><strong>(include UE throughput)</strong></p></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Huawei [16][57]</strong></td>
<td>Cross-slot scheduling</td>
<td>13.7% ~ 25.4%</td>
<td><p>Average power</p>
<p>(28.1/24.3)~ (40.9/30.6)</p></td>
<td><p>UPT loss: 13.4%~18.4%</p>
<p>Latency increase: 0.84~3.2%</p></td>
<td>none</td>
<td><p>SLS</p>
<p>CDRX config: (160, 100, 8), (160, 40, 8), (40, 25, 4), (40, 10, 4)</p></td>
<td>Single UE in a cell</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>6.5% ~ 11.3%</td>
<td>(64.4/60.2)~ (87.4/77.6)</td>
<td><p>UPT loss: 2.9%~5.2%</p>
<p>Latency increase: 0.29%~0.46%</p></td>
<td>none</td>
<td>Same as first case</td>
<td>Multi-UE in a cell (10 UEs in average)</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Vivo [58]</strong></td>
<td>cross-slot scheduling</td>
<td>18%-29%</td>
<td>18%-25% for UE of 5 percentile SINR</td>
<td><p>Average packet Latency: 13.94- 58.36 ms;</p>
<p>Latency increase: 1%-4%</p></td>
<td>Marginal</td>
<td><p>Numerical simulation</p>
<p>Baseline assumption: non-UE preferred CDRX configuration;</p>
<p>Traffic: ftp model 3</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>24%-28% for UE of 50 percentile SINR</td>
<td><p>Average packet Latency: 4.03- 47.80 ms;</p>
<p>Latency increase: 1%-14%</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>25%-29% for UE of 95 percentile SINR</td>
<td><p>Average packet Latency: 3.01- 46.74 ms;</p>
<p>Latency increase: 1%-20%</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Mediatek [59]</strong></td>
<td><p>Cross-slot scheduling</p>
<p>With positive values in K0, K2 and A-CSI offset</p></td>
<td>13.54% ~ 18.99%</td>
<td><p>FTP/Video: 18.99%</p>
<p>IM: 17.26%</p>
<p>VoIP: 13.54%</p></td>
<td><p>Latency Increase:</p>
<p>FTP/Video: 0.84%</p>
<p>IM: 0.34%</p>
<p>VoIP: 3.72%</p></td>
<td><p>RU increase:</p>
<p>FTP/Video: 0%</p>
<p>IM: 0%</p>
<p>VoIP: 0%</p></td>
<td><p>SLS</p>
<p>CDRX config:</p>
<p>FTP/Video (160, 100, 8)</p>
<p>IM (320, 80, 10)</p>
<p>VoIP (40, 10, 4)</p></td>
<td>K0, K2 and A-CSI offset &gt; 0</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>CATT[21][60]</strong></td>
<td>Cross-slot scheduling with K0 &gt; 0 indicated to the UE in advance</td>
<td>1.1%~11.3%</td>
<td><p>ftp3 with 160ms DRX-cycle: 11.3%</p>
<p>IM with 320ms DRX-cycle: 1.1%</p></td>
<td>--</td>
<td>0%</td>
<td><p>SLS with 10UE per TRP to get transmission rate, and observed one single UE for power consumption.</p>
<p>Baseline: Cross-slot scheduling wo. micro-sleep, FTP3 with 0.5Mbytes and 200ms inter-arrival time, IM with 0.1Mbytes and 2s inter-arrival time</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>ZTE [19][41]<span class="underline">[61]</span></strong></td>
<td>Cross-slot scheduling with K0 =1 indicated to the UE in advance</td>
<td>24%~25%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Numerical simulation;</p>
<p>DRX configuration (160-100-8)</p>
<p>FTP3 traffic model with 0.1Mbytes and mean of inter packet arrivals = 200ms;</p></td>
<td><p>Peak throughput: 10-symbol PDSCH in one slot, 100MHz BWP.</p>
<p>No UL.</p>
<p>Single UE. </p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Samsung [34][64]</strong></td>
<td>Cross-slot scheduling</td>
<td>21%</td>
<td><p>#1: 21%</p>
<p>#2: 21%</p>
<p>#3: 21%.</p>
<p>#4: 21%</p></td>
<td><p>#1: 837Mbps/1.03ms</p>
<p>#2: 565Mbps/1.53ms</p>
<p>#3: 426.38Mbps/2.03ms</p>
<p>#4: 342.36Mbps/2.53ms</p></td>
<td>DCI based power saving signal for triggering adaptation with monitoring, T = 1024ms</td>
<td><p>Numerical simulation</p>
<p>No C-DRX,</p>
<p>FTP3 traffic model with mean of inter packet arrivals = 4ms</p>
<p>Minimum K0:</p>
<p>Case #1: 0.5ms,</p>
<p>Case #2: 1ms,</p>
<p>Case #3: 1.5ms,</p>
<p>Case #4: 2ms</p></td>
<td><p>Single UE,</p>
<p>One PDSCH over 10 symbols in one slot is capable of carrying 868584 information bits.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Intel [65]</strong></td>
<td>Cross-slot scheduling with K0=1</td>
<td>16.3% ~ 20.8%</td>
<td>16.34%</td>
<td>65.53 MBps</td>
<td>85.42 ms</td>
<td></td>
<td>5%</td>
<td>FTP model 3<br />
160, 100, 8</td>
<td><p>System level simulations<br />
<br />
1%-4% UPT loss for FTP model 3</p>
<p>1.2-1.8% UPT loss for Instant Messaging<br />
2.4% UPT loss for VoIP</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>19.36%</td>
<td>84.6 MBps</td>
<td>60.76 ms</td>
<td></td>
<td>50%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>20.48%</td>
<td>88.11 MBps</td>
<td>56.73 ms</td>
<td></td>
<td>95%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>20.25%</td>
<td>5.65 MBps</td>
<td>149.13 ms</td>
<td></td>
<td>5%</td>
<td>Instant Messaging<br />
320, 80, 10</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>20.77%</td>
<td>5.73 MBps</td>
<td>148.72 ms</td>
<td></td>
<td>50%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>20.66%</td>
<td>5.73 MBps</td>
<td>148.69 ms</td>
<td></td>
<td>95%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>17.76%</td>
<td>0.0282 MBps</td>
<td>11.01 ms</td>
<td></td>
<td>5%</td>
<td>VoIP<br />
40, 10, 4</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>17.72%</td>
<td>0.0279 MBps</td>
<td>11.03 ms</td>
<td></td>
<td>50%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>17.44%</td>
<td>0.0282 MBps</td>
<td>11.02 ms</td>
<td></td>
<td>95%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Interdigital [66]</strong></td>
<td>Cross-slot scheduling with k0 = 1</td>
<td>13.1% ~ 22.4%</td>
<td><p>FTP: 20.1%, 16.2%, 13.1%</p>
<p>IM: 18.5%, 18.0%, 22.4%</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>SLS</p>
<p>Case 1(160, 100, 8), Case 2 (40, 25, 4),</p>
<p>Case 3(40, 10, 4)</p>
<p>Case 4(320, 80, 10)</p>
<p>FTP (Case 1, 2, 3)</p>
<p>IM (Case 2, 3, 4)</p></td>
<td><p>10 UEs per cell</p>
<p>Average gain</p>
<p>Higher gain observed for longer DRX cycle.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Apple [68][84]</strong></td>
<td><p>1) UE can indicate its preferred K0, K1, K2 values to gNB before data transfer starts.</p>
<p>2) gNB can use those preferred K0, K1, K2 values for data scheduling.</p></td>
<td>5~41 %</td>
<td><p>5% for (K0,K1)=(8,8)</p>
<p>41% for (K0,K1)=(0,1)</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Evaluation Method = Mathematical Analysis</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Apple [68][84]</strong></td>
<td>1) gNB can configure UE's TDRA table with entries with enough gap between PDCCH and associated PDSCH. The gap (<strong>in slot</strong>) is long enough such that PDSCH transmission starts after the gap ends.</td>
<td>0~30%</td>
<td><p>0% for high load (grant is scheduled every slot).</p>
<p>~30% for very low load (grant is scheduled with very low probability)</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Evaluation Method = Mathematical Analysis,</p>
<p>It is assumed that arrived packet could be served with a single PDSCH.</p></td>
<td><p>TDRA based gap scheduling</p>
<p>(cross slot scheduling only)</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Ericsson [69]</strong></td>
<td><p>Cross-slot scheduling comparing with minimum K0 &gt; 0</p>
<p>K0 = 1</p>
<p>K0= 4</p>
<p>K0= 16</p></td>
<td>See next column</td>
<td><p>K0 = 1: 13%-21%</p>
<p>K0 = 4: 9%-19%</p>
<p>K0 = 16: 2%-15%</p></td>
<td><p>UPT loss:</p>
<p>K0 = 1:</p>
<p>3%-5%</p>
<p>K0 = 4:</p>
<p>10%-13%</p>
<p>K0 = 16:</p>
<p>25%-30%</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>System-level simulation</p>
<p>CDRX = (160, 100, 8) ms</p>
<p>Traffic model is FTP3 with 180 kB packet size and 200 ms inter-arrival time is used.</p>
<p><strong>48% RU</strong></p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>See next column</td>
<td><p>K0 = 1: 16%-20%</p>
<p>K0 = 4: 15%-17%</p>
<p>K0 = 16: 6%-11%</p></td>
<td><p>UPT loss:</p>
<p>K0 = 1:</p>
<p>0.3%-4%</p>
<p>K0 = 4:</p>
<p>7%-12%</p>
<p>K0 = 16:</p>
<p>20%-32%</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>System-level simulation</p>
<p>CDRX = (160, 100, 8) ms</p>
<p>Traffic model is FTP3 with 180 kB packet size and 200 ms inter-arrival time is used.</p>
<p><strong>3% RU</strong></p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Qualcomm [30][48][70]</strong></td>
<td>Configuration of minimum DL scheduling offset that applies to K0 and A-CSI triggering offset</td>
<td><p>25.8%</p>
<p>(for 1-slot PDCCH period)</p></td>
<td><p>For PDCCH period</p>
<p>1 slot: 25.8%</p>
<p>2 slots: 17.5%</p>
<p>4 slots: 11.0%</p>
<p>8 slots: 6.9%</p></td>
<td><p>Latency increase for PDCCH period</p>
<p>1 slot: 0.57%</p>
<p>2 slot: 0.80%</p>
<p>4 slot: 1.37%</p>
<p>8 slot: 2.50%</p></td>
<td>none</td>
<td><p>SLS</p>
<p><strong>FR1</strong></p>
<p>FTP3, no DRX</p></td>
<td><p>- Gain in average power consumption</p>
<p>- Baseline latency: 87.6ms (PDCCH period 1 slot)</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>27%</p>
<p>(for 1-slot PDCCH period)</p></td>
<td><p>For PDCCH period</p>
<p>1 slot: 27.0%</p>
<p>2 slots: 20.9%</p>
<p>4 slots: 14.7%</p>
<p>8 slots: 9.6%</p></td>
<td><p>Latency increase for PDCCH period</p>
<p>1 slot: 0.46%</p>
<p>2 slot: 0.91%</p>
<p>4 slot: 1.37%</p>
<p>8 slot: 2.74%</p></td>
<td>none</td>
<td><p>SLS</p>
<p><strong>FR2</strong></p>
<p>FTP3, no DRX, <span class="math inline"><em>k</em>0 &gt; 0</span></p></td>
<td><p>- Gain in average power consumption</p>
<p>- Baseline latency: 21.9ms (PDCCH period 1 slot)</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>21.7%</p>
<p>(for 1-slot PDCCH period)</p></td>
<td><p>For PDCCH period</p>
<p>1 slot: 21.0%</p>
<p>2 slots: 16.0%</p>
<p>4 slots: 11.1%</p>
<p>8 slots: 07.8%</p></td>
<td><p>Latency increase for PDCCH period</p>
<p>1 slot: 0.14%</p>
<p>2 slot: 0.28%</p>
<p>4 slot: 0.42%</p>
<p>8 slot: 0.84%</p></td>
<td>none</td>
<td><p>SLS</p>
<p><strong>FR2</strong></p>
<p>FTP3, <span class="math inline"><em>k</em>0 &gt; 0</span>, CDRX config = (160, 100, 4)</p></td>
<td><p>- Gain in average power consumption</p>
<p>- Baseline latency: 71.85ms (PDCCH period 1 slot)</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Nokia, NSB [37][51]</strong></td>
<td>Cross-slot scheduling k0 = {2, 4, 8, 16, 32} compared with DRX for k0=0</td>
<td>25.9%</td>
<td><p>k0=2: +25.9 %</p>
<p>k0=4: +25.9 %</p>
<p>k0=8: +25.9 %</p>
<p>k0=16: +25.9 %</p>
<p>k0=32: +25.9 %</p></td>
<td><p>Latency increase</p>
<p>k0=2: +1.9 %</p>
<p>k0=4: +3.7 %</p>
<p>k0=8: +7.2 %</p>
<p>k0=16: +14.2 %</p>
<p>k0=32: +28.1 %</p></td>
<td>none</td>
<td><p>Numerical simulation</p>
<p>FTP3</p>
<p>CDRX config (160, 40, 8)</p>
<p>k0 = {2, 4, 8, 16, 32}. Baseline is k0 = 0.</p>
<p>Other assumptions same as calibration</p></td>
<td>Cross-slot scheduling PDCCH-only power is applied in every relevant slot in all cases, because the k0 value is provided semi-statically through RRC messaging (PDSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocationList)</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Observation:

The power saving schemes with cross slot scheduling show 13% - 28 %
power saving gain and UPT degradation 0.3 %- 5% for minimum K0= 1, 13% -
25% power saving gain and UPT degradation 7 % -13 % for 1\< minimum K0
\< 4 and 2% - 25% power saving gain for minimum K0 \>= 4 and UPT
degradation up to 32%. When minimum K0\>1, the power saving gain
decreases and UPT degrades as the K0 increases. Smaller power saving
gain in the range 1.1% - 6.5% is observed when the amount of PDCCH
monitoring without data scheduling is limited because of high scheduling
activity or going to DRX OFF by MAC-CE. The average latency increase is
up to 4% if minimum K0 value is less than 4 and C-DRX is assumed. Larger
latency increases up to 15% is observed for larger minimum K0 values or
C-DRX is not applied.

\- Same slot scheduling

\- Adaptation of TDRA configurations to achieve UE power saving --
ensure the gap between PDCCH reception and PDSCH transmission known to
the UE

\- Adjustment of TDRA configuration

\- Selection of TDRA entry in the TDRA table \[5\].

\- Note: cross-slot scheduling could be incorporated in the TDRA
configuration

\- Power model for TDRA power saving scheme is the slot-averaged power
for a slot with N-symbol PDSCH aligned to the end of the slot and PDCCH
at the beginning of the slot reported by the proposed scheme.

\- UE assistance information can be considered

\- The general procedure for the study of the power saving scheme when
same slot scheduling is used

\- gNB semi-statically configures TDRA to the UE, subject to UE
capability (if any).

\- All schedulable TDRA values with K0=0 include at least Y symbols
between the last PDCCH symbol and the first PDSCH symbol

\- Y is FFS

\- Note: the value of Y is necessary for power modelling in evaluation,
although the specification (if specified) of Y value may also be done in
the WI phase

\- Note: in case there is a TDRA entry with K0\>0, it is assumed that
the gap between the last PDCCH symbol in a first slot and the first
PDSCH symbol in a second slot is no less than Y

\- All aperiodic CSI-RS triggering offsets are greater than Y symbols

\- UE decodes PDCCH and retrieves the index of schedulable TDRA
value~~s~~

\- UE could go to micro sleep after reception of last PDCCH symbol

\- UE processes PDSCH at the indicated starting time from TDRA
value~~s~~

Table 4: Power saving scheme with same slot scheduling

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Co    | Power | Power | Power | U     | Esti  | Evalu | Note  |
| mpany | s     | s     | s     | PT/La | mated | ation |       |
|       | aving | aving | aving | tency | Ove   | metho | (in   |
|       | s     | gain  | gain  |       | rhead | dolog | clude |
|       | cheme |       | for   |       |       | y/bas | UE    |
|       |       |       | each  |       |       | eline | t     |
|       |       |       | con   |       |       | assum | hroug |
|       |       |       | figur |       |       | ption | hput) |
|       |       |       | ation |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| **Med | Same  | -     | FTP/V | La    | RU    | SLS   | \# of |
| iatek | -slot | 5.94% | ideo: | tency | incr  |       | sy    |
| \[5   |       | \~    | -     | Incr  | ease: | CDRX  | mbols |
| 9\]** | Sched | 1     | 5.94% | ease: |       | co    | be    |
|       | uling | 7.17% |       |       | FTP/V | nfig: | tween |
|       | with  |       | IM:   | FTP/V | ideo: |       | PDCCH |
|       | a     |       | 1     | ideo: | 10    | FTP/  | and   |
|       | spec  |       | 7.17% | 5     | 0.27% | Video | PDSCH |
|       | ified |       |       | 5.60% |       | (160, | = 6   |
|       | time  |       | VoIP: |       | IM:   | 100,  |       |
|       | gap   |       | 1     | IM:   | 9     | 8)    | \# of |
|       | be    |       | 5.50% | 0.47% | 3.51% |       | PDSCH |
|       | tween |       |       |       |       | IM    | sy    |
|       | PDCCH |       |       | VoIP: | VoIP: | (320, | mbols |
|       | and   |       |       | 0.45% | 0%    | 80,   |       |
|       | PDSCH |       |       |       |       | 10)   | per   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | slot  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VoIP  | = 7   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (40,  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 10,   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4)    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **    | 1\)   | 16    | 16%   |       |       | Evalu | TDRA  |
| Apple | gNB   | \~30% | for   |       |       | ation | based |
| \[68  | can   |       | high  |       |       | M     | gap   |
| \]\[8 | conf  |       | load  |       |       | ethod | sched |
| 4\]** | igure |       | (     |       |       | =     | uling |
|       | UE\'s |       | grant |       |       | Ma    |       |
|       | TDRA  |       | is    |       |       | thema | (same |
|       | table |       | sche  |       |       | tical | slot  |
|       | with  |       | duled |       |       | Anal  | sched |
|       | en    |       | every |       |       | ysis, | uling |
|       | tries |       | slot) |       |       |       | only) |
|       | with  |       |       |       |       | It is |       |
|       | e     |       | \~30% |       |       | as    |       |
|       | nough |       | for   |       |       | sumed |       |
|       | gap   |       | low   |       |       | that  |       |
|       | be    |       | load  |       |       | ar    |       |
|       | tween |       | (     |       |       | rived |       |
|       | PDCCH |       | grant |       |       | p     |       |
|       | and   |       | is    |       |       | acket |       |
|       | assoc |       | sche  |       |       | could |       |
|       | iated |       | duled |       |       | be    |       |
|       | P     |       | very  |       |       | s     |       |
|       | DSCH. |       | low   |       |       | erved |       |
|       | The   |       | pr    |       |       | with  |       |
|       | gap   |       | obabi |       |       | a     |       |
|       | **(in |       | lity) |       |       | s     |       |
|       | sym   |       |       |       |       | ingle |       |
|       | bols/ |       |       |       |       | P     |       |
|       | slo   |       |       |       |       | DSCH. |       |
|       | ts)** |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |  is   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | long  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | e     |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | nough |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | such  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | that  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | PDSCH |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | tr    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ansmi |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssion |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | s     |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | tarts |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | after |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | gap   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ends. |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

Observation:

The power saving schemes with same slot scheduling show by one source
15%-17% power saving gain for small data using evaluations, and by
another source 16%-30% power saving gain for small data using numerical
analysis, such as the instant message or VoIP traffic. 93% overhead
increase is observed for the instant message. For large data, such as
FTP traffic, one source shows power saving gain of negative 5.9% and 55%
latency increase and 100% overhead increase due to the longer PDSCH
transmission and reception time that is used to compensate the reduced
PDSCH symbol number in a slot. It is noted that there is no consensus on
the power model of same slot scheduling.

\- Multi-slot scheduling -- PDCCH decoding in one slot (e.g., one DCI,
multiple DCI) supports scheduled PDSCH/PUSCH transmission over multiple
slots.

\- Achieving UE power consumption reduction by potentially skipping
PDCCH monitoring at subsequent slots of PDSCH/PUSCH transmission.

Table 5: Power saving scheme with multi-slot scheduling

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Co    | Power | Power | Power | U     | Esti  | Evalu | Note  |
| mpany | s     | s     | s     | PT/La | mated | ation |       |
|       | aving | aving | aving | tency | Ove   | metho | (in   |
|       | s     | gain  | gain  |       | rhead | dolog | clude |
|       | cheme |       | for   |       |       | y/bas | UE    |
|       |       |       | each  |       |       | eline | t     |
|       |       |       | con   |       |       | assum | hroug |
|       |       |       | figur |       |       | ption | hput) |
|       |       |       | ation |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| **Sa  | Multi | 21.6% | \#1:  | \#1:  | no    | Nume  | The   |
| msung | -slot | \~    | 21    | 1G    |       | rical | re    |
| \[34  | s     | 38.1% | .64%, | bps/0 |       | simul | sults |
| \]\[6 | chedu |       |       | .81ms |       | ation | shown |
| 4\]** | ling: |       | \#2:  |       |       |       | also  |
|       | one   |       | 32    | \#2:  |       | No    | re    |
|       | PDCCH |       | .28%, | 0.62G |       | C     | flect |
|       | sche  |       |       | bps/1 |       | -DRX, | c     |
|       | dules |       | \#3:  | .37ms |       |       | ombin |
|       | at    |       | 35    |       |       | FTP3  | ation |
|       | most  |       | .65%, | \#3:  |       | tr    | with  |
|       | N TBs |       |       | 0.45G |       | affic | re    |
|       | a     |       | \#4:  | bps/1 |       | model | duced |
|       | cross |       | 37    | .54ms |       | with  | PDCCH |
|       | N     |       | .25%, |       |       | mean  | monit |
|       | c     |       |       | \#4:  |       | of    | oring |
|       | onsec |       | \#5:  | 0.35  |       | inter | to    |
|       | utive |       | 38.1% | Gbps/ |       | p     | ba    |
|       | s     |       |       | 2.5ms |       | acket | lance |
|       | lots. |       |       |       |       | arr   | the   |
|       |       |       |       | \#5:  |       | ivals | t     |
|       |       |       |       | 0.28G |       | = 4ms | hroug |
|       |       |       |       | bps/3 |       |       | hput. |
|       |       |       |       | .06ms |       | Ma    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ximum | S     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     | ingle |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | chedu | UE.   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lable |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     | One   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lots, | PDSCH |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | F,    | over  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   | 10    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDCCH | sy    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | monit | mbols |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oring | in    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | p     | one   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eriod | slot  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | icity | is    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | T,    | ca    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (     | pable |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | F,T): | of    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | car   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Case  | rying |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \#1:  | 8     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (2,   | 68584 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1ms)  | i     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | nform |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Case  | ation |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \#2:  | bits. |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (4,   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2ms)  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Case  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \#3:  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (6,   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3ms)  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Case  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \#4:  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (8,   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4ms)  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Case  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \#5:  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (10,  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5ms)  |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **Z   | Multi | 0.65% |       |       |       | Nume  | Mo    |
| TE\[7 | -slot | -1.9% |       |       |       | rical | nitor |
| 6\]** | s     |       |       |       |       | s     | PDCCH |
|       | chedu |       |       |       |       | imula | at    |
|       | ling: |       |       |       |       | tion; | each  |
|       | One   |       |       |       |       |       | slot  |
|       | PDCCH |       |       |       |       | C-DRX | e     |
|       | sche  |       |       |       |       | c     | xcept |
|       | dules |       |       |       |       | onfig | the   |
|       | 2\    |       |       |       |       | (1    | slots |
|       | \3\\4 |       |       |       |       | 60,10 | with  |
|       | TBs   |       |       |       |       | 0,8); | PDSCH |
|       | a     |       |       |       |       |       | tra   |
|       | cross |       |       |       |       |       | nsmis |
|       | 2\    |       |       |       |       |       | sion. |
|       | \3\\4 |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | c     |       |       |       |       |       | Peak  |
|       | onsec |       |       |       |       |       | t     |
|       | utive |       |       |       |       |       | hroug |
|       | s     |       |       |       |       |       | hput: |
|       | lots, |       |       |       |       |       | 10-s  |
|       | mo    |       |       |       |       |       | ymbol |
|       | nitor |       |       |       |       |       | PDSCH |
|       | PDCCH |       |       |       |       |       | in    |
|       | at    |       |       |       |       |       | one   |
|       | each  |       |       |       |       |       | slot, |
|       | slot  |       |       |       |       |       | 1     |
|       | e     |       |       |       |       |       | 00MHz |
|       | xcept |       |       |       |       |       | BWP.  |
|       | the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | slots |       |       |       |       |       | No    |
|       | with  |       |       |       |       |       | UL.   |
|       | PDSCH |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | tra   |       |       |       |       |       | S     |
|       | nsmis |       |       |       |       |       | ingle |
|       | sion. |       |       |       |       |       | UE.   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

Observation:

For the power saving schemes with multi-slot scheduling, 21.6% - 38.1%
power saving gain and 30-70% UPT degradation are shown in combination of
PDCCH monitoring reduction. The other source shows 0.65% - 1.9% power
saving gain.

### 5.1.3 Adaptation to number of antenna 

The UE power saving schemes with UE adaptation to the traffic is to
reduce the maximum number of antenna/panels or MIMO layers indicated by
the network semi-statically or dynamically to achieve the UE power
saving. This may be done with potential UE assistance information. The
dynamic approach may also be associated with a transition time, a timer,
etc.

Table 6: Power saving scheme with UE adaptation to the number of
antenna/MIMO layer

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Company</th>
<th>Power saving scheme</th>
<th>Power saving gain</th>
<th>Power saving gain for each configuration</th>
<th>UPT/Latency</th>
<th>Estimated Overhead</th>
<th>Evaluation methodology/baseline assumption</th>
<th><p>Note</p>
<p>(include UE throughput)</p></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Huawei [16][57]</strong></td>
<td>Dynamic Adaptation to number of antennas, 2Rx for PDCCH only until a PDSCH is scheduled and 4Rx reception for PDCCH and PDSCH;</td>
<td>18.19%~22.43%</td>
<td><p>CDRX config of (160, 40, 8): 18.19%, average power:</p>
<p>(18.46/15.10);</p>
<p>CDRX config of (160, 100, 8): 22.43%, average power:</p>
<p>(30.86/23.94)</p></td>
<td>Almost similar to the baseline</td>
<td>5.94*10<sup>-6</sup>~5.99*10<sup>-6</sup></td>
<td><p>SLS</p>
<p>CDRX config: (160, 100, 8), (160, 40, 8)</p>
<p>Packet size / arrival rate (Mbytes / ms): 0.5/200</p>
<p>Scheme 2: 2Rx for PDCCH-only slot until a PDSCH is scheduled; Once a PDCCH with grant is detected, a timer starts and the UE starts to use 4 Rx before the timer expires;</p>
<p>The timer shall be restarted when a grant DCI is detected;</p>
<p>When the timer expires, UE operates with 2Rx;</p>
<p>Baseline: 4Rx is always used in different states and cross-slot scheduling is used;</p></td>
<td><p>Single UE in a cell</p>
<p>Cross-slot scheduling is assumed for all schemes and the baseline;</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>2Rx is always used for reception and cross-slot scheduling is used</td>
<td>-2.31% ~ 19.40%</td>
<td>-2.31%~ -1.13% for 5%-tile UE for the FTP model-3 traffic</td>
<td><p>UPT loss: 2.55%~58.66%</p>
<p>Latency increment: 1.3%~345%</p></td>
<td>9.50*10<sup>-4</sup>~0.0069</td>
<td><p>SLS</p>
<p>CDRX config: (160, 100, 8), (160, 40, 8)</p>
<p>Packet size / arrival rate (Mbytes / ms): 0.5/200, 0.1/2000</p>
<p>Scheme 1: 2Rx is always used;</p>
<p>Baseline: 4Rx is always used in different states and cross-slot scheduling is used;</p></td>
<td>10 UEs in a cell; for each configuration, 5%-tile UE and 95%-tile UE are evaluated respectively</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>Dynamic Adaptation to number of antennas, 2Rx for PDCCH only until a PDSCH is scheduled and 4Rx reception for PDCCH and PDSCH;</td>
<td>2.96% ~18.49%</td>
<td>For the traffic of 0.1Mbyte with 2000 ms mean interval, the gain of 16%~17.8% for 5%-tile UE and 16.28%~18.49% for 95%-tile UE.</td>
<td>Almost similar to the baseline</td>
<td>1.58*10<sup>-5</sup> ~ 1.58*10<sup>-4</sup></td>
<td><p>Same as above except this is for Scheme 2</p>
<p>Baseline: 4Rx is always used in different states and cross-slot scheduling is used;</p></td>
<td>10 UEs in a cell; Same as above</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Vivo [58]</strong></td>
<td><p>Adaptation to number of antenna</p>
<p>(UE reports its preferred Rx antenna number), evaluated for gaming application</p></td>
<td>6% ~ 30%</td>
<td>20% for CDRX</td>
<td><p>Average packet latency: 16.83ms;</p>
<p>Latency increase: 0%</p></td>
<td>Marginal</td>
<td><p>Numerical simulation</p>
<p>Baseline assumption: The Rx number is always 4Rx; Traffic model: gaming</p>
<p>CDRX config: (40,10,4)</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>30% for Fixed PDCCH monitoring periodicity (0.5ms)</td>
<td><p>Average packet latency: 0.5ms;</p>
<p>Latency increase: 0%</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>6% for Fixed PDCCH monitoring periodicity (40ms)</td>
<td><p>Average packet latency: 20.30ms;</p>
<p>Latency increase: 0%</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Mediatek [18][40][59]</strong></td>
<td>BWP-based adaptation on the maximum MIMO layer number</td>
<td>14.37% ~ 19.53%</td>
<td><p>FTP/Video: 14.37%</p>
<p>IM: 15.70%</p>
<p>VoIP: 19.53%</p></td>
<td><p>Latency Increase</p>
<p>FTP/Video: 3.36%</p>
<p>IM: 1.79%</p>
<p>VoIP: -1.78%</p></td>
<td><p>RU increase:</p>
<p>FTP/Video: -0.43%</p>
<p>IM: 1.95%</p>
<p>VoIP: -4.08%</p></td>
<td><p>SLS</p>
<p>CDRX config:</p>
<p>FTP/Video (160, 100, 8)</p>
<p>IM (320, 80, 10)</p>
<p>VoIP (40, 10, 4)</p></td>
<td><p>One 4-layer BWP and one 2-layer BWP. DCI and timer based dynamic switching for FTP/Video and IM;</p>
<p>Static 2-layer BWP for VoIP</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Intel [65]</strong></td>
<td><p>Number of UE antennas adaptation.</p>
<p>Comparison of 2Rx and 4Rx chains with maximum rank 2</p></td>
<td>25.1 ~ 30.2%</td>
<td>26.06%</td>
<td>68.42 MBps</td>
<td>80.49 ms</td>
<td></td>
<td>5%</td>
<td>FTP model 3<br />
160, 100, 8</td>
<td><p>System level simulations<br />
<br />
<br />
6%-8% UPT loss for FTP model 3</p>
<p>&lt;1% UPT loss for Instant Messaging and VoIP</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>26.89%</td>
<td>85.68 MBps</td>
<td>60.33 ms</td>
<td></td>
<td>50%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>25.11%</td>
<td>89.3 MBps</td>
<td>56.13 ms</td>
<td></td>
<td>95%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>29.66%</td>
<td>5.78 MBps</td>
<td>149.13 ms</td>
<td></td>
<td>5%</td>
<td>Instant Messaging<br />
320, 80, 10</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>29.4%</td>
<td>5.87 MBps</td>
<td>148.72 ms</td>
<td></td>
<td>50%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>29.87%</td>
<td>5.82 MBps</td>
<td>148.69 ms</td>
<td></td>
<td>95%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>30.03%</td>
<td>0.0287 MBps</td>
<td>10.15 ms</td>
<td></td>
<td>5%</td>
<td>VoIP<br />
40, 10, 4</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>29.32%</td>
<td>0.0284 MBps</td>
<td>10.2 ms</td>
<td></td>
<td>50%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>30.24%</td>
<td>0.0288 MBps</td>
<td>10.09 ms</td>
<td></td>
<td>95%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Interdigital [66]</strong></td>
<td>Dynamic receive antenna adaptation between 4x and 2x</td>
<td>10.2% ~ 19.9%</td>
<td><p>FTP: 10.2%</p>
<p>IM: 19.9%</p></td>
<td>No impact on latency</td>
<td></td>
<td><p>SLS</p>
<p>Case 1(160, 100, 8),</p>
<p>Case 4(320, 80, 10)</p>
<p>FTP (Case 1)</p>
<p>IM (Case 4)</p></td>
<td><p>10 UEs per cell</p>
<p>Average gain</p>
<p>Higher gain observed for IM traffic.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Apple [68][84]</strong></td>
<td><p>1) There are certain cases where gNB does not have to use large number of layers, e.g., low load traffic (traffic/control) transmission in good channel condition.</p>
<p>2) gNB can RRC configure UE with the maximum number of MIMO layers L_max.</p>
<p>3) gNB can dynamically indicate the mimo layer in DCI within L_max.</p>
<p>4) UE can buffer only up to L_max to avoid unnecessary buffering of layers which is not used.</p></td>
<td>0 % ~ 30 %</td>
<td><p>0 % for very low traffic load (when traffic load is low, no need to buffer PDSCH).</p>
<p>30% for high traffic load (when load is high, reducing to 2Rx from 4Rx could save up to 30% power).</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Evaluation Method = Mathematical Analysis,</p>
<p>Basic assumption is that SNR is high enough so that the BLER with 2Rx is very low enough.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Ericsson [69]</strong></td>
<td>Comparison of 2-Rx chains vs 4-Rx chains with maximum 2-layers</td>
<td>Negligible to negative power saving gains since UE with 2Rx operation (vs 4Rx) has to stay awake longer to receive data.</td>
<td></td>
<td>Latency (mean user serving time) increase by 1.4x-7.6x based on traffic load</td>
<td><p>Overhead (resources utilization) increase of 1.3x-2.7x</p>
<p>Based on traffic load</p></td>
<td>System-level simulation</td>
<td>Increased PDCCH resource overhead due to 2Rx vs 4Rx is not modelled.</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>ZTE[19][76]</strong></td>
<td>Adaptive configuration with 2 or 4 antennas</td>
<td>13% ~ 14%</td>
<td><p>10M:13.37%</p>
<p>20M: 13.26%</p>
<p>40M: 13.37%</p>
<p>80M: 13.85%</p>
<p>100M: 14.01%</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Numerical simulation;</p>
<p>FTP 3 with 0.1Mbytes and mean arrival time=200ms</p>
<p>CDRX config:</p>
<p>(160,100,8)</p>
<p>Bandwidth=10M,20M,40M,80M,100M</p></td>
<td><p>Peak throughput: 10-symbol PDSCH in one slot.</p>
<p>No UL.</p>
<p>Single UE</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Observation:

The power saving schemes with UE adaptation to the number of MIMO layers
or number of Tx/Rx antenna (panels) provides up to 3%-30% power saving
gain for the dynamic antenna adaptation and 6%- 30% for the semi-static
antenna adaptation with some impact to the system performance, such as
4% latency increase for dynamic antenna adaptation, when reduced antenna
operation is used mainly during periods of low scheduling activity and
additional network resources are used for the compensation of the loss
of multi-antenna processing gain. It was shown by one source that there
is corresponding 10%-58% UPT degradation for the RRC configured antenna
reduction without adaptation for FTP traffic. It is noted that with a
set of simulation assumptions (such as traffic model and SCS) not
aligned with the agreed ones for evaluation, it was observed by one
source that the negative power saving gain and latency up to 760 % over
Rel-15 4Rx antenna for the RRC configured antenna reduction without
adaptation for FTP traffic was observed. It was observed by one source
that the resulting additional overhead in terms of DL resource usage for
the dynamic antenna adaptation is up to 2%.

### 5.1.4 Adaptation to DRX operation

The power saving scheme of power saving signal/channel triggering UE
adaptation to DRX operation is to configure the power saving
signal/channel before or at the beginning of the DRX ON duration to
trigger UE waking up only when there is DL data arrival. UE is not
required to wake up at the DRX ON at least for PDCCH monitoring, if the
power saving signal is not detected. The go-to-sleep signaling is used
as the indication allowing UE going back to sleep state after completion
of PDSCH reception during the DRX ON period to further reduce the UE
power consumption.

For power saving scheme with UE adaptation to the DRX operation for
further study

\- UE adaptation of its behavior to the DRX operation for UE power
consumption reduction

\- When is configured with power saving signal/channel, power saving
signal/channel as the indication whether to wakeup or not before or at
the beginning of DRX ON duration

\- At least for the indication of PDCCH monitoring

\- Preparation period is used for (e.g., to perform channel tracking,
CSI measurements, beam tracking).

\- Preparation period can be used in preparation for the PDCCH decoding

\- Preparation period could be before or during the DRX ON duration

\- Network can indicate UE to report CSI before or after the power
saving signal/channel (if configured) during the preparation period

\- Network can indicate additional RS transmission (e.g., CSI-RS, TRS,
SSB and power saving signal) at the preparation period

\- Go-to-sleep signaling as the indication allowing UE going back to
sleep state

\- MAC-CE

\- DCI

\- Power saving signal/channel

\- Constraints on scheduling DCI during DRX\_ON

The following table is subject to further update, particularly regarding
evaluation results/assumptions

Table 7: Power saving scheme with UE adaptation to the DRX operation

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Co    | Power | Power | Power | U     | Esti  | Evalu | Note  |       |
| mpany | s     | s     | s     | PT/La | mated | ation |       |       |
|       | aving | aving | aving | tency | Ove   | metho | (in   |       |
|       | s     | gain  | gain  |       | rhead | dolog | clude |       |
|       | cheme |       | for   |       |       | y/bas | UE    |       |
|       |       |       | each  |       |       | eline | t     |       |
|       |       |       | con   |       |       | assum | hroug |       |
|       |       |       | figur |       |       | ption | hput) |       |
|       |       |       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| **H   | Wa    | 0.2%  | Av    | UPT:  | 1.    | SLS   | 10    |       |
| uawei | ke-up | \~    | erage | 0.4   | 96\*1 |       | UEs   |       |
| \     | sign  | 1     | p     | 9%\~1 | 0^-6^ | DRX   | in a  |       |
| [52\] | aling | 7.79% | ower: | 6.09% | \~    | co    | cell  |       |
| \[53\ |       |       | (97.7 |       | 1.    | nfig: |       |       |
| ]\[54 |       |       | 5/97. | Lat   | 92\*1 | (320, | WUS   |       |
| \]\[5 |       |       | 55)\~ | ency: | 0^-5^ | 200,  | t     |       |
| 7\]** |       |       | (65   | 2.    |       | 10),  | ransm |       |
|       |       |       | .75/5 | 22%\~ |       | (320, | itted |       |
|       |       |       | 4.05) | 9.88% |       | 80,   | 3ms   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 10),  | b     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (160, | efore |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 100,  | first |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8),   | slot  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (160, | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 40,   | DRX   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8),   | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (40,  | dura  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 25,   | tion. |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4),   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (40,  | WUS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 10,   | power |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4)    | value |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | is 30 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | Inc   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | luded |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | per   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | iodic |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | backg |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | round |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | act   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ivity |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | time  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | /freq |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | uency |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | trac  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | king, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | etc   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **H   | DCI   | 6.7%  | Av    | UPT:  | none  | Eval. | S     |       |
| uawei | expli | \~    | erage | 10    |       | me    | ingle |       |
| \[16  | citly | 37.5% | p     | .9%\~ |       | thod: | UE in |       |
| \]\[5 | indic |       | ower: | 40.5% |       | SLS   | a     |       |
| 7\]** | ating |       | (23.0 |       |       |       | cell, |       |
|       | resta |       | /     | Lat   |       | DRX   | and   |       |
|       | rting |       | 21.5) | ency: |       | co    | with  |       |
|       | inact |       | \~    | 2     |       | nfig: | diff  |       |
|       | ivity |       | (55.6 | .7%\~ |       | (160, | erent |       |
|       | timer |       | /     | 49.1% |       | 100,  | tr    |       |
|       |       |       | 34.7) |       |       | 8),   | affic |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (160, | model |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 40,   | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8)    | p     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | acket |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | size  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | data  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ar    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | rival |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | rate  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | are   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | cor   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | respo |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | nding |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 0.1   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | /200, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 0.1   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | /100, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 0.5   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | /200, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 0.5/  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 100(M |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | bytes |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | / ms) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | res   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | pecti |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | vely. |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **Med | Wa    | 9.40% | FTP/V | La    | RU    | SLS   | Con   |       |
| iatek | ke-up | \~    | ideo: | tency | incr  |       | stant |       |
| \[40  | signa | 3     | 9.40% | Incr  | ease: | CDRX  | wa    |       |
| \]\[5 | lling | 0.39% |       | ease: |       | co    | ke-up |       |
| 9\]** | b     |       | IM:   |       | FTP/V | nfig: | and   |       |
|       | efore |       | 3     | FTP/V | ideo: |       | 8     |       |
|       | DRX   |       | 0.39% | ideo: | -     | FTP/  | -slot |       |
|       | o     |       |       | 1     | 1.40% | Video | PDCCH |       |
|       | n-dur |       | VoIP: | 2.14% |       | (160, | monit |       |
|       | ation |       | 2     |       | IM:   | 100,  | oring |       |
|       | and   |       | 4.55% | IM:   | 0%    | 8)    | p     |       |
|       | aggre |       |       | 8.80% |       |       | eriod |       |
|       | gated |       |       |       | VoIP: | IM    | for   |       |
|       | with  |       |       | VoIP: | -     | (320, | VoIP  |       |
|       | peri  |       |       | 1     | 5.10% | 80,   |       |       |
|       | odic/ |       |       | 1.92% |       | 10)   | WUS   |       |
|       | backg |       |       |       |       |       | power |       |
|       | round |       |       |       |       | VoIP  | value |       |
|       | activ |       |       |       |       | (40,  | is    |       |
|       | ities |       |       |       |       | 10,   | the   |       |
|       | a     |       |       |       |       | 4)    | same  |       |
|       | round |       |       |       |       |       | as    |       |
|       | SS    |       |       |       |       |       | that  |       |
|       | burst |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | cross |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | -slot |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | PDCCH |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | -only |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | monit |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | oring |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **Med | Wa    | 5.03% | FTP/V | La    | RU    | SLS   | WUS   |       |
| iatek | ke-up | \~    | ideo: | tency | incr  |       | power |       |
| \[5   | signa | 2     | 5.02% | Incr  | ease: | CDRX  | value |       |
| 9\]** | lling | 0.47% |       | ease: |       | co    | is    |       |
|       | right |       | IM:   |       | FTP/V | nfig: | the   |       |
|       | b     |       | 2     | FTP/V | ideo: |       | same  |       |
|       | efore |       | 0.47% | ideo: | -     | FTP/  | as    |       |
|       | DRX   |       |       | 6.41% | 0.70% | Video | that  |       |
|       | o     |       | VoIP: |       |       | (160, | of    |       |
|       | n-dur |       | 7.94% | IM:   | IM:   | 100,  | cross |       |
|       | ation |       |       | 5.56% | 0%    | 8)    | -slot |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | PDCCH |       |
|       |       |       |       | VoIP: | VoIP: | IM    | -only |       |
|       |       |       |       | 7.22% | -     | (320, | monit |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1.02% | 80,   | oring |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 10)   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VoIP  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (40,  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 10,   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4)    |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **CAT | Power | 54.0% | ftp3  | \--   | The   | SLS   |       |       |
| T\[21 | s     | \~    | with  |       | ove   | with  |       |       |
| \]\[6 | aving | 76.4% | 160ms |       | rhead | 10UE  |       |       |
| 0\]** | s     |       | DRX-c |       | for   | per   |       |       |
|       | ignal |       | ycle: |       | addit | TRP   |       |       |
|       | tr    |       | 54.0% |       | ional | to    |       |       |
|       | igger |       |       |       | is    | get   |       |       |
|       | DRX   |       | IM    |       | si    | tr    |       |       |
|       | adapt |       | with  |       | milar | ansmi |       |       |
|       | ation |       | 320ms |       | to    | ssion |       |       |
|       | and   |       | DRX-c |       | CS    | rate, |       |       |
|       | power |       | ycle: |       | I-RS. | and   |       |       |
|       | s     |       | 76.4% |       |       | obs   |       |       |
|       | aving |       |       |       |       | erved |       |       |
|       | refe  |       |       |       |       | one   |       |       |
|       | rence |       |       |       |       | s     |       |       |
|       | s     |       |       |       |       | ingle |       |       |
|       | ignal |       |       |       |       | UE    |       |       |
|       | for   |       |       |       |       | for   |       |       |
|       | ch    |       |       |       |       | power |       |       |
|       | annel |       |       |       |       | co    |       |       |
|       | trac  |       |       |       |       | nsump |       |       |
|       | king, |       |       |       |       | tion. |       |       |
|       | CSI   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | me    |       |       |       |       | Base  |       |       |
|       | asure |       |       |       |       | line: |       |       |
|       | ment. |       |       |       |       | R15   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sc    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | heme, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | onsid |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ering |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | proc  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | edure |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ch    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | annel |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | trac  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | king, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CSI   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | me    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | asure |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ment. |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | FTP3  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 0.5M  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bytes |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 200ms |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | int   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | er-ar |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rival |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | time, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IM    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 0.1M  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bytes |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2s    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | int   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | er-ar |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rival |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | time  |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **ZTE | *two  | 8.89% | FTP   |       |       | Nume  | Peak  |       |
| \[19\ | level | \~    | tra   |       |       | rical | t     |       |
| ]\[41 | stru  | 39.9% | ffic: |       |       | s     | hroug |       |
| \]\[6 | cture |       | 8.89% |       |       | imula | hput: |       |
| 1\]** | of    |       |       |       |       | tion; | 10-s  |       |
|       | power |       | In    |       |       |       | ymbol |       |
|       | s     |       | stant |       |       | CDRX  | PDSCH |       |
|       | aving |       | Mes   |       |       | co    | in    |       |
|       | s     |       | sage: |       |       | nfig: | one   |       |
|       | ignal |       | 39.9% |       |       |       | slot; |       |
|       | trigg |       |       |       |       | FTP   | 100   |       |
|       | ering |       |       |       |       | tr    | MHz   |       |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       | affic | BWP   |       |
|       | wake  |       |       |       |       | (     |       |       |
|       | up*   |       |       |       |       | 160,1 | No    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 00,8) | UL.   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | In    | S     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | stant | ingle |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Me    | UE    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssage |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 320,8 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 0,10) |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Base  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | line: |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | No    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | WUS   |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **ZTE | A     | 44%   | FTP   |       |       | Nume  | Peak  |       |
| \[19\ | ssoci | \~    | t     |       |       | rical | t     |       |
| ]\[41 | ation | 54%   | raffi |       |       | s     | hroug |       |
| \]\[6 | of    |       | c:44% |       |       | imula | hput: |       |
| 1\]** | BWP,  |       |       |       |       | tion; | 10-s  |       |
|       | two   |       | In    |       |       |       | ymbol |       |
|       | level |       | stant |       |       | CDRX  | PDSCH |       |
|       | stru  |       | M     |       |       | co    | in    |       |
|       | cture |       | essag |       |       | nfig: | one   |       |
|       | of PS |       | e:54% |       |       |       | slot; |       |
|       | s     |       |       |       |       | FTP   | 100   |       |
|       | ignal |       |       |       |       | tr    | MHz   |       |
|       | and   |       |       |       |       | affic | BWP   |       |
|       | DRX   |       |       |       |       | (     |       |       |
|       | oper  |       |       |       |       | 160,1 | No    |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       | 00,8) | UL.   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | In    | S     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | stant | ingle |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Me    | UE    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssage |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 320,8 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 0,10) |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Base  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | line: |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | No    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | WUS,  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | BWP=1 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 00MHz |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **L   | P     | >     |       | UPT   |       | Tr    | Refe  |       |
| G\[46 | DCCH- | \(1\) |       | loss: |       | affic | rence |       |
| \]\[6 | based | > 11. |       |       |       | m     | sch   |       |
| 2\]** | WUS   | 45%\~ |       | >     |       | odel: | emes: |       |
|       | s     | > 1   |       | \(1\) |       | FTP3  | PDCCH |       |
|       | ignal | 4.24% |       | > 13. |       | with  | monit |       |
|       | trigg | >     |       | 11%\~ |       | file  | oring |       |
|       | ering | >     |       | > 1   |       | size  | pe    |       |
|       | UE    | \(2\) |       | 6.59% |       | 0.5   | riodi |       |
|       | wake  | > 12. |       | >     |       | Mbps, | city: |       |
|       | up    | 41%\~ |       | >     |       |       | 1     |       |
|       |       | > 2   |       | \(2\) |       | CDRX  | slot, |       |
|       |       | 7.33% |       | > 38. |       | c     | K0=0  |       |
|       |       | >     |       | 59%\~ |       | onfig |       |       |
|       |       | >     |       | > 5   |       | (     |       |       |
|       |       | \(3\) |       | 4.49% |       | 160,1 |       |       |
|       |       | > 0.  |       | >     |       | 00,8) |       |       |
|       |       | 82%\~ |       | >     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | >     |       | \(3\) |       | [Case |       |       |
|       |       | 6.81% |       | > 1.  |       | s]{.u |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 27%\~ |       | nderl |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | >     |       | ine}: |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 4.07% |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (WUS  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | occa  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sions |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | : DRX |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cy    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cles) |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | >     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \(1\) |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | > 1:1 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | >     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | >     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \(2\) |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | > 1:4 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | >     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | >     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \(3\) |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | > 4:1 |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **Sa  | 1-bit | 4% \~ | \#1:  | 23.8M | RS    | Nume  | S     |       |
| msung | Power | 11.4% | 4%    | bps/3 | based | rical | ingle |       |
| \[34  | S     |       |       | 6.5ms | power | simul | UE.   |       |
| \]\[6 | aving |       | \#2   |       | s     | ation |       |       |
| 4\]** | s     |       | :8.4% | 1     | aving |       | One   |       |
|       | ignal |       |       | 6.75M | s     | C-DRX | PDSCH |       |
|       | trigg |       | \#3:  | bps/5 | ignal | =     | over  |       |
|       | ering |       | 11.4% | 1.8ms | with  | (160, | 10    |       |
|       | UE    |       |       |       | monit | 100,  | sy    |       |
|       | w     |       |       | 15.0M | oring | 8)    | mbols |       |
|       | akeup |       |       | bps/5 | p     |       | in    |       |
|       | at    |       |       | 7.8ms | eriod | FTP3  | one   |       |
|       | DRX   |       |       |       | icity | tr    | slot  |       |
|       | ON    |       |       |       | e     | affic | is    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | quals | model | ca    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | to    |       | pable |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DRX   | [Case | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | cycle | s]{.u | car   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nderl | rying |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ine}: | 8     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 68584 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Mean  | i     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    | nform |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | inter | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | p     | bits. |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | acket |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | arr   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ivals |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | =     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \#1:1 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 00ms, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \#2:  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 200m, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \#:3  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 300ms |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| *     | Two   | 89.4% | \#1:  | 13.4M | RS    | Nume  | S     |       |
| *Sams | l     | \~    | 89.4% | bps/6 | based | rical | ingle |       |
| ung[\ | evels | 91.6% |       | 4.7ms | power | simul | UE.   |       |
| []{.u | C     |       | \#2:  |       | s     | ation |       |       |
| nderl | SI-RS |       | 91.2% | 6     | aving |       | One   |       |
| ine}6 | based |       |       | .12Mb | s     | C-DRX | PDSCH |       |
| 4\]** | power |       | \#3:  | ps/14 | ignal | =     | over  |       |
|       | s     |       | 91.6% | 1.8ms | with  | (160, | 10    |       |
|       | aving |       |       |       | monit | 100,  | sy    |       |
|       | s     |       |       | 4     | oring | 8)    | mbols |       |
|       | ignal |       |       | .62Mb | p     |       | in    |       |
|       | prior |       |       | ps/18 | eriod | FTP3  | one   |       |
|       | to    |       |       | 7.8ms | icity | tr    | slot  |       |
|       | DRX   |       |       |       | e     | affic | is    |       |
|       | ON    |       |       |       | quals | model | ca    |       |
|       | dur   |       |       |       | to    |       | pable |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       | DRX   | [Case | of    |       |
|       | for   |       |       |       | cycle | s:]{. | car   |       |
|       | dy    |       |       |       |       | under | rying |       |
|       | namic |       |       |       |       | line} | 8     |       |
|       | wa    |       |       |       |       |       | 68584 |       |
|       | ke-up |       |       |       |       | Mean  | i     |       |
|       | indic |       |       |       |       | of    | nform |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       | inter | ation |       |
|       | and   |       |       |       |       | p     | bits. |       |
|       | sc    |       |       |       |       | acket |       |       |
|       | aling |       |       |       |       | arr   |       |       |
|       | on    |       |       |       |       | ivals |       |       |
|       | CDRX  |       |       |       |       | =     |       |       |
|       | con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | figur |       |       |       |       | \#1:1 |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       | 00ms, |       |       |
|       | param |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | eters |       |       |       |       | \#2:  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 200m, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \#:3  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 300ms |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **    | Power | 1.6   | 9.89% | 64.3  |       | 5%    | FTP   | S     |
| Intel | s     | \~    |       | /62.6 |       |       | model | ystem |
| \[45  | aving | 67.5% |       | MBps  |       |       | 3\    | level |
| \]\[6 | s     |       |       | (     |       |       | 160,  | simul |
| 5\]** | ignal |       |       | 2.6%) |       |       | 100,  | ation |
|       | trigg |       |       | /     |       |       | 8     |       |
|       | ering |       |       | 85.8  |       |       |       | WUS   |
|       | UE    |       |       | /88.0 |       |       |       | dete  |
|       | wake  |       |       | ms    |       |       |       | ction |
|       | up    |       |       | (     |       |       |       | power |
|       | for   |       |       | 2.5%) |       |       |       | is    |
|       | DRX   |       |       |       |       |       |       | as    |
|       | on    |       |       |       |       |       |       | sumed |
|       | dur   |       |       |       |       |       |       | to be |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       | 100   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       | u     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       | nits, |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       | i.e.  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       | PD    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       | CCH-b |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ased, |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       | no    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       | trans |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ition |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       | e     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       | nergy |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       | redu  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       | com   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       | pared |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       | deep  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       | sleep |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       | refe  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       | rence |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       | is    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ass   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       | umed. |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | 1     | 87.0  |       | 50%   |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1.86% | /82.6 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5.1%) |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 59.8  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | /63.2 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5.5%) |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | 1     | 91.4  |       | 95%   |       |       |
|       |       |       | 2.65% | /85.1 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 6.8%) |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 55.7  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | /60.4 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 8.5%) |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | 4     | 5.79  |       | 5%    | In    |       |
|       |       |       | 0.37% | /5.54 |       |       | stant |       |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       | Messa |       |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       | ging\ |       |
|       |       |       |       | 4.4%) |       |       | 320,  |       |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       | 80,   |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1     |       |       | 10    |       |
|       |       |       |       | 45.9/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 152.0 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 4.2%) |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | 4     | 6.07  |       | 50%   |       |       |
|       |       |       | 2.83% | /5.74 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5.4%) |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 42.2/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 149.4 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5.1%) |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | 4     | 5.90  |       | 95%   |       |       |
|       |       |       | 2.42% | /5.51 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 6.6%) |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 44.2/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 154.3 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 7.0%) |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | 1     | 0.0   |       | 5%    | VoIP\ |       |
|       |       |       | 8.59% | 286/0 |       |       | 40,   |       |
|       |       |       |       | .0232 |       |       | 10, 4 |       |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (1    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 8.9%) |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 10.2  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | /12.6 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (2    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 4.4%) |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | 1     | 0.0   |       | 50%   |       |       |
|       |       |       | 9.27% | 279/0 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | .0229 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (1    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 7.8%) |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 10.2  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | /12.6 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (2    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 2.9%) |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | 1     | 0.0   |       | 95%   |       |       |
|       |       |       | 7.71% | 289/0 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | .0241 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (1    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 6.8%) |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 10.1  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | /12.3 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (2    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1.9%) |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | 2.52% | 0.0   |       | 5%    | Ga    |       |
|       |       |       |       | 568/0 |       |       | ming\ |       |
|       |       |       |       | .0285 |       |       | 40,   |       |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       | 10, 4 |       |
|       |       |       |       | (4    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 9.8%) |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 16.8  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | /18.4 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 9.4%) |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | 1.68% | 0.0   |       | 50%   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 531/0 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | .0282 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (4    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 6.9%) |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 17.2  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | /18.5 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 7.3%) |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | 2.03% | 0.0   |       | 95%   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 491/0 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | .0303 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (3    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 8.3%) |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 16.0  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | /17.1 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 6.7%) |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | 6     | 2.26  |       | 5%    | Web   |       |
|       |       |       | 7.49% | /2.16 |       |       | brow  |       |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       | sing\ |       |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       | 320,  |       |
|       |       |       |       | 4.4%) |       |       | 80,   |       |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       | 10    |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 32.9/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 139.9 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5.2%) |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | 6     | 2.33  |       | 50%   |       |       |
|       |       |       | 7.57% | /2.25 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 3.7%) |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 30.9/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 136.7 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 4.4%) |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | 6     | 2.27  |       | 95%   |       |       |
|       |       |       | 7.47% | /2.16 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 4.7%) |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 30.3/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 137.5 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 5.5%) |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | 1     | 0.1   |       | 5%    | Video |       |
|       |       |       | 5.86% | 152/0 |       |       | strea |       |
|       |       |       |       | .1066 |       |       | ming\ |       |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       | 40,   |       |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       | 10, 4 |       |
|       |       |       |       | 7.4%) |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 8.58/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 10.14 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (1    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 8.2%) |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | 1     | 0.1   |       | 50%   |       |       |
|       |       |       | 5.13% | 192/0 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | .1113 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 6.6%) |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 8.44  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | /9.80 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (1    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 6.1%) |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | 1     | 0.1   |       | 95%   |       |       |
|       |       |       | 4.89% | 155/0 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | .1084 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 6.2%) |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 8.74/ |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 10.01 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (1    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 4.6%) |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **    | Wa    | 11.5% | FTP:  | No    |       | SLS   | 10    |       |
| Inter | ke-up | \~    | 1     | i     |       |       | UEs   |       |
| digit | s     | 88.1% | 1.5%, | mpact |       | Case  | per   |       |
| al\[6 | ignal |       | 2     |       |       | 1     | cell  |       |
| 6\]** | trigg |       | 4.2%, |       |       | (160, |       |       |
|       | ering |       | 27.9% |       |       | 100,  | Av    |       |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       | 8),   | erage |       |
|       | wa    |       | IM:   |       |       | Case  | gain  |       |
|       | ke-up |       | 8     |       |       | 2     |       |       |
|       | for   |       | 4.6%, |       |       | (40,  | As    |       |
|       | DRX   |       | 8     |       |       | 25,   | sumes |       |
|       | ON    |       | 8.1%, |       |       | 4),   | adv   |       |
|       | dur   |       | 36.6% |       |       |       | anced |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       | Case  | know  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3(40, | ledge |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 10,   | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4)    | sched |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | uling |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Case  | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4     | tatus |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (320, | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 80,   | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 10)   | upc   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | oming |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | FTP   | DRX   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (Case | ON    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1, 2, | dur   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3)    | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IM    | H     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (Case | igher |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2, 3, | gain  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4)    | obs   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | erved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | from  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | sh    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | orter |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ycle. |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | IM    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | gain  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | is    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | hi    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | gher. |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **E   | WUS   | 8%    | 8     | 10%   | One   | Sy    | Se    |       |
| ricss | +Sh   | \~14% | %-14% | gain  | WUS   | stem- | veral |       |
| on\[6 | orter |       | power | for   | sent  | level | DRX   |       |
| 9\]** | DRX   |       | s     | same  | in    | simul | C     |       |
|       | cycle |       | aving | power | one   | ation | ycles |       |
|       | com   |       | gain  | c     | s     |       | from  |       |
|       | pared |       | for   | onsum | ymbol | CDRX  | 20 to |       |
|       | to no |       | the   | ption | b     |       | 160   |       |
|       | WUS + |       | same  |       | efore | Tr    | ms    |       |
|       | L     |       | UPT   |       | each  | affic | are   |       |
|       | onger |       |       |       | tr    | model | eval  |       |
|       | DRX   |       |       |       | affic | is    | uated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | burst | FTP3  | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  | On    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 180   | dur   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | kB    | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | p     | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | acket | 8ms   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | size  | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   | 100ms |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 200   | IAT   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | int   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | er-ar |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rival |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | time  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | is    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | used. |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RU \< |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 10%.  |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **Qua | P     | 5.8   | C-DRX |       | Addit | Me    |       |       |
| lcomm | re-wa | to    | c     |       | ional | thod: |       |       |
| \[7   | ke-up | 9.4%  | onfig |       | CSI-R | Nume  |       |       |
| 0\]** | w     |       | (c    |       | S/TRS | rical |       |       |
|       | indow |       | ycle, |       | tr    | ana   |       |       |
|       |       |       | on    |       | ansmi | lysis |       |       |
|       |       |       | dur.) |       | ssion |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | in    | Base  |       |       |
|       |       |       | (1    |       | PWU   | line: |       |       |
|       |       |       | 60ms, |       | w     | SSB-  |       |       |
|       |       |       | 8ms): |       | indow | based |       |       |
|       |       |       | 9.4%  |       | b     | s     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | efore | cheme |       |       |
|       |       |       | (3    |       | DRX   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 20ms, |       | ON    | Tr    |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1     |       | dur   | affic |       |       |
|       |       |       | 0ms): |       | ation | m     |       |       |
|       |       |       | 5.8%  |       |       | odel: |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | P     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DCCH- |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | monit |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oring |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | only  |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **Qua | P     | 5% \~ | H     | La    | Perce | Me    | CSI   |       |
| lcomm | DCCH- | 50%   | ighli | tency | ntage | thod: | me    |       |
| \[    | based |       | ghts: | incr  | of    | Nume  | asure |       |
| 30\]\ | WUS   |       |       | ease: | DRX   | rical | ments |       |
| [48\] | trigg |       | Web   |       | c     | simul | in    |       |
| \[7   | ering |       | bro   | Web   | ycles | ation | pre-  |       |
| 0\]** | UE    |       | wsing | bro   | requ  |       | proce |       |
|       | w     |       | /w    | wsing | iring | FR1.  | ssing |       |
|       | akeup |       | DRX   | /w    | one   | DL-   | b     |       |
|       |       |       | (160, | DRX   | addit | only. | efore |       |
|       |       |       | 100)  | (160, | ional |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       | 100)  | PDCCH | Sync  | 1^st^ |       |
|       |       |       | (\#1) |       | as    | every | PDSCH |       |
|       |       |       | 35%   | 4%    | WUS:  | 160   | rece  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | msec. | ption |       |
|       |       |       | (\#2) | FTP   | Web   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 25%   | /w    | bro   | Tr    | WUS   |       |
|       |       |       |       | DRX   | wsing | affic | power |       |
|       |       |       | FTP   | (160, | /w    | m     | m     |       |
|       |       |       | /w    | 100)  | DRX   | odel: | odel: |       |
|       |       |       | DRX   |       | (160, | Web   |       |       |
|       |       |       | (160, | 3%    | 100)  | brow  | \~1/3 |       |
|       |       |       | 100)  |       |       | sing, | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       | FTP   | 5%    | FTP,  | bas   |       |
|       |       |       | (\#1) | /w    |       | IM    | eline |       |
|       |       |       | 10%   | DRX   | FTP   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (40,  | /w    | DRX   | (See  |       |
|       |       |       | (\#2) | 10)   | DRX   | con   | Se    |       |
|       |       |       | 5%    |       | (160, | figur | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       | 13%   | 100)  | ation | 2     |       |
|       |       |       | FTP   |       |       | (4    | .1.1) |       |
|       |       |       | /w    | IM /w | 28%   | 0,10) |       |       |
|       |       |       | DRX   | DRX   |       | (160  |       |       |
|       |       |       | (40,  | (320, | FTP   | ,100) |       |       |
|       |       |       | 10)   | 80)   | /w    | (320, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DRX   | 80)   |       |       |
|       |       |       | (\#1) | 2%    | (40,  |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 50%   |       | 10)   | DRX   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ON    |       |       |
|       |       |       | (\#2) |       | 11%   | dur   |       |       |
|       |       |       | 31%   |       |       | ation |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | IM /w | assum |       |       |
|       |       |       | IM /w |       | DRX   | ption |       |       |
|       |       |       | DRX   |       | (320, | for   |       |       |
|       |       |       | (320, |       | 80)   | base  |       |       |
|       |       |       | 80)   |       |       | line: |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 14%   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | (\#1) |       |       | (\#1) |       |       |
|       |       |       | 21%   |       |       | Refe  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rence |       |       |
|       |       |       | (\#2) |       |       | c     |       |       |
|       |       |       | 11%   |       |       | onfig |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (\#2) |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | -slot |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UE    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SINR  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | a     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssump |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion: |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Peak  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MCS,  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | throu |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ghput |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **N   | Wa    | DRX:  | DRX:  | DRX:  | WUS   | Nume  | DRX:  |       |
| okia, | ke-up |       |       | +12.2 | is    | rical |       |       |
| NSB   | s     | 8%    | 10    | %     | PDCCH | simul | No    |       |
| \[7   | ignal |       | unit: |       | based | ation | WUS   |       |
| 1\]** | with  | Short | +8.6  | Short | i.e.  |       | 1516  |       |
|       | short | DRX   | %     | DRX   | few   | 3     | 82387 |       |
|       | DRX   |       |       | i:    | addit | slot  | u     |       |
|       |       | 16%   | 50    | +11.3 | ional | delay | nits, |       |
|       |       | \~    | unit: | %     | sy    | be    | 10    |       |
|       |       | 20%   | +8.5  |       | mbols | tween | units |       |
|       |       |       | %     | Short | for   | WUS   | WUS   |       |
|       |       |       |       | DRX   | PDCCH | and   | 1386  |       |
|       |       |       | 100   | ii:   | b     | On    | 01719 |       |
|       |       |       | unit: | 16.7  | efore | Dura  | u     |       |
|       |       |       | +7.8  | %     | On    | tion. | nits, |       |
|       |       |       | %     |       | Dur   | Sleep | 50    |       |
|       |       |       |       | Short | ation | t     | units |       |
|       |       |       | Short | DRX   |       | ransi | WUS   |       |
|       |       |       | DRX   | iii:  |       | tions | 1387  |       |
|       |       |       |       | 51.6  |       | acco  | 16190 |       |
|       |       |       | 10    | %     |       | rding | u     |       |
|       |       |       | unit: |       |       | to UE | nits, |       |
|       |       |       | +20.3 |       |       | power | 100   |       |
|       |       |       | %     |       |       | m     | units |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | odel. | WUS   |       |
|       |       |       | 50    |       |       |       | 1398  |       |
|       |       |       | unit: |       |       | WUS   | 60887 |       |
|       |       |       | +19.5 |       |       | power | units |       |
|       |       |       | %     |       |       | level |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 10    | Short |       |
|       |       |       | 100   |       |       | u     | DRX   |       |
|       |       |       | unit: |       |       | nits, | i:    |       |
|       |       |       | +18.6 |       |       | 50    |       |       |
|       |       |       | %     |       |       | u     | No    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nits, | WUS   |       |
|       |       |       | Short |       |       | 100   | 780   |       |
|       |       |       | DRX   |       |       | u     | 73432 |       |
|       |       |       | ii:   |       |       | nits. | u     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | No    | nits, |       |
|       |       |       | 10    |       |       | trans | 10    |       |
|       |       |       | unit: |       |       | ition | units |       |
|       |       |       | +19.7 |       |       | e     | WUS   |       |
|       |       |       | %     |       |       | nergy | 622   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | redu  | 08308 |       |
|       |       |       | 50    |       |       | ction | u     |       |
|       |       |       | unit: |       |       | is    | nits, |       |
|       |       |       | +18.5 |       |       | as    | 50    |       |
|       |       |       | %     |       |       | sumed | units |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   | WUS   |       |
|       |       |       | 100   |       |       | the   | 628   |       |
|       |       |       | unit: |       |       | refe  | 19068 |       |
|       |       |       | +17.0 |       |       | rence | u     |       |
|       |       |       | %     |       |       | deep  | nits, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sleep | 100   |       |
|       |       |       | Short |       |       | trans | units |       |
|       |       |       | DRX   |       |       | ition | WUS   |       |
|       |       |       | iii:  |       |       | is    | 635   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ass   | 82502 |       |
|       |       |       | 10    |       |       | umed. | units |       |
|       |       |       | unit: |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | +18.6 |       |       | Long  | Short |       |
|       |       |       | %     |       |       | DRX   | DRX   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cycle | ii    |       |
|       |       |       | 50    |       |       | incl. |       |       |
|       |       |       | unit: |       |       | short | No    |       |
|       |       |       | +17.4 |       |       | DRX   | WUS   |       |
|       |       |       | %     |       |       | (as   | 1030  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | per   | 96777 |       |
|       |       |       | 100   |       |       | MAC   | u     |       |
|       |       |       | unit: |       |       | spe   | nits, |       |
|       |       |       | +15.8 |       |       | cific | 10    |       |
|       |       |       | %     |       |       | ation | units |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 38.   | WUS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 321). | 827   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 57455 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Made  | u     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   | nits, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | FTP3  | 50    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | units |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Re    | WUS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sults | 840   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | are   | 21095 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | com   | u     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pared | nits, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    | 100   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | each  | units |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX   | WUS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | con   | 856   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | figur | 00613 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation | units |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | wi    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | thout | Short |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | WUS.  | DRX   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | iii   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | [Case |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s:]{. | No    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | under | WUS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | line} | 2016  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 68275 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX:  | u     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 160   | nits, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ms    | 10    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX   | units |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     | WUS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ycle, | 1641  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 100   | 44242 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ms    | u     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | inact | nits, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ivity | 50    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | t     | units |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | imer, | WUS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8 ms  | 1666  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | On    | 36202 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Dura  | u     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion. | nits, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 100   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Short | units |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX   | WUS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | i: 80 | 1697  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ms    | 51089 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     | DRX:  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ycle, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5 ms  | No    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | inact | WUS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ivity | 44.2  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | t     | ms,   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | imer, | WUS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8 ms  | 49.6  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | On    | ms    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Dura  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion, | Short |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 40 ms | DRX   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | short | i:    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     | No    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ycle, | WUS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     | 31.1  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | short | ms,   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     | WUS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ycles | 34.6  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ms    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Short |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX   | Short |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ii:   | DRX   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 40 ms | ii:   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     | No    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ycle, | WUS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5 ms  | 14.4  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | inact | ms,   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ivity | WUS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | t     | 16.8  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | imer, | ms    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4 ms  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | On    | Short |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Dura  | DRX   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion, | iii   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 20 ms |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | short | No    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX   | WUS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     | 5.06  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ycle, | ms,   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5     | WUS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | short | 7.67  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     | ms    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ycles |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Short |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | iii:  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 20 ms |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ycle, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5 ms  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | inact |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ivity |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | t     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | imer, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4 ms  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | On    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Dura  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 10 ms |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | short |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ycle, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 10    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | short |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ycles |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| *     | Wa    | 4.3%  | FTP:  |       | FTP:  | SLS   |       |       |
| *OPPO | ke-up | and   | 4.3%  |       | 0.01% |       |       |       |
| \[20\ | s     | 2     |       |       |       | Tr    |       |       |
| ]\[42 | cheme | 6.75% | IM:   |       | IM:   | affic |       |       |
| \]\[8 | for   |       | 2     |       | 0     | m     |       |       |
| 3\]** | DRX   |       | 6.75% |       | .005% | odel: |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | FTP3, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IM    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CDRX  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nfig: |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | FTP:  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (160, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 100,  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8)    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IM:   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (320, |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 80,   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 10)   |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| *     | Both  | 6.7%  |       |       |       | SLS   | Power |       |
| *CMCC | power |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
| [\    | s     |       |       |       |       | FTP3: | aving |       |
| [80\] | aving |       |       |       |       | 0.5Mb | trigg |       |
| ]{.un | s     |       |       |       |       | ytes, | ering |       |
| derli | ignal |       |       |       |       | 200ms | UE    |       |
| ne}** | and   |       |       |       |       |       | wake  |       |
|       | CSI   |       |       |       |       | CDRX= | up    |       |
|       | me    |       |       |       |       | (160, | and   |       |
|       | asure |       |       |       |       | 100,  | CSI   |       |
|       | ments |       |       |       |       | 10)   | m     |       |
|       | in    |       |       |       |       |       | easur |       |
|       | ad    |       |       |       |       |       | ement |       |
|       | vance |       |       |       |       |       | b     |       |
|       | of    |       |       |       |       |       | efore |       |
|       | DRX   |       |       |       |       |       | DRX   |       |
|       | ON    |       |       |       |       |       | ON.   |       |
|       | com   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | pared |       |       |       |       |       | UE    |       |
|       | with  |       |       |       |       |       | mea   |       |
|       | only  |       |       |       |       |       | sures |       |
|       | power |       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |
|       | s     |       |       |       |       |       | SI-RS |       |
|       | aving |       |       |       |       |       | reso  |       |
|       | s     |       |       |       |       |       | urces |       |
|       | ignal |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       | in    |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       | ad    |       |       |       |       |       | ports |       |
|       | vance |       |       |       |       |       | CSI   |       |
|       | of    |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       | DRX   |       |       |       |       |       | PUCCH |       |
|       | ON    |       |       |       |       |       | res   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ource |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | if    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | power |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | aving |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ignal |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | is    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | dete  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | cted. |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **    | WUS   | 29%   | FTP:  |       |       | Nume  |       |       |
| Sprea | with  | \~    | 45%   |       |       | rical |       |       |
| dtrum | op    | 49%   | \~49% |       |       | simul |       |       |
| \[6   | timiz |       |       |       |       | ation |       |       |
| 7\]** | ation |       | IM:   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (low  |       | 42%   |       |       | CDRX  |       |       |
|       | power |       | \~45% |       |       | c     |       |       |
|       | WUS + |       |       |       |       | onfig |       |       |
|       | low   |       | VoIP: |       |       | (c    |       |       |
|       | trans |       | 29%   |       |       | ycle, |       |       |
|       | ition |       | \~35% |       |       | on-d  |       |       |
|       | power |       |       |       |       | ur.): |       |       |
|       | +     |       |       |       |       | FTP/  |       |       |
|       | short |       |       |       |       | Video |       |       |
|       | gap   |       |       |       |       | (160, |       |       |
|       | to    |       |       |       |       | 8),   |       |       |
|       | WU)   |       |       |       |       | IM    |       |       |
|       | b     |       |       |       |       | (320, |       |       |
|       | efore |       |       |       |       | 10),  |       |       |
|       | D     |       |       |       |       | VoIP  |       |       |
|       | RX-ON |       |       |       |       | (40,  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4)    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Base  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | line: |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | WUS   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | is    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | not   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | used  |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

Observation:

The powers saving schemes with UE adaptation to the DRX operation
include UE adaptation of its behavior to the DRX operation, and dynamic
DRX configuration. Based on the evaluation, the schemes of power saving
signal/channel triggering wake-up for CDRX show power saving gain in a
range of 8% - 50% comparing to the baseline with the agreed C-DRX
reference configuration. The latency increase/UPT degradation is in the
range of (2% - 13%)/(0.5%-16%). It is shown the power saving gain tends
to be higher when the C-DRX cycle is shorter, but it is smaller when
C-DRX ON duration is shortened, For longer C-DRX cycle and/or high
traffic load, smaller gain in the range of 5% - 10% is observed. The
power saving gain shown by the power saving signal/channel triggering UE
adaptation to the DRX operation has very little dependency on the
assumed power consumption level of the power saving signal/channel.

Additional gain 4% -10% of the power saving scheme with UE adaptation to
the DRX operation with the help of the preparation period is observed on
top of the power saving gain from UE wake-up by power saving
signal/channel. The corresponding additional overhead was not reported
and summarized. The corresponding system impact (if any) was not
analysed and summarized.

\- Dynamic DRX configuration [ ]{.underline} including at least the
following

\- UE is configured with multiple DRX configurations

\- Dynamic selection of DRX configuration by gNB from multiple DRX
configurations (e.g., traffic, mobility)

\- UE assistance information may be considered

\- Adaptive parameters setting of one DRX configuration

\- UE assistance information may be considered

\- DRX parameters are indicated by gNB

\- Adaptive UE behavior in the DRX operation (e.g, restart the
inactivity timer)

The following table is subject to further update, particularly regarding
evaluation results/assumptions

Table 8: Power saving scheme with multi-DRX configurations

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Co    | Power | Power | Power | U     | Esti  | Evalu | Note  |
| mpany | s     | s     | s     | PT/La | mated | ation |       |
|       | aving | aving | aving | tency | Ove   | metho | (in   |
|       | s     | gain  | gain  |       | rhead | dolog | clude |
|       | cheme |       | for   |       |       | y/bas | UE    |
|       |       |       | each  |       |       | eline | t     |
|       |       |       | con   |       |       | assum | hroug |
|       |       |       | figur |       |       | ption | hput) |
|       |       |       | ation |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| *     | UE    | 4%    | 4     | Av    | Mar   | Nume  |       |
| *Vivo | r     | \~80% | %-57% | erage | ginal | rical |       |
| \[5   | eport |       | for   | p     |       | simul |       |
| 8\]** | pref  |       | UE of | acket |       | ation |       |
|       | erred |       | 5     | Lat   |       |       |       |
|       | CDRX  |       | perce | ency: |       | Bas   |       |
|       | con   |       | ntile | 87.61 |       | eline |       |
|       | figur |       | SINR  | ms;   |       | a     |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       | ssump |       |
|       |       |       |       | La    |       | tion: |       |
|       |       |       |       | tency |       | n     |       |
|       |       |       |       | incr  |       | on-UE |       |
|       |       |       |       | ease: |       | pref  |       |
|       |       |       |       | 2     |       | erred |       |
|       |       |       |       | %-74% |       | CDRX  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | conf  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | igura |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Tr    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | affic |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | m     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | odel: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ftp   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | model |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | 8     | Av    |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | %-77% | erage |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | for   | p     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | UE of | acket |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 50    | Lat   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | perce | ency: |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ntile | 81.19 |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | SINR  | ms;   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | La    |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tency |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | incr  |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ease: |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 2     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | %-94% |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | 11    | Av    |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | %-80% | erage |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | for   | p     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | UE of | acket |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 95    | Lat   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | perce | ency: |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ntile | 80.43 |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | SINR  | ms;   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | La    |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tency |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | incr  |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ease: |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 2     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | %-95% |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **Med | DRX   | 42.09 | FTP/V | La    | RU    | SLS   |       |
| iatek | param | \~    | ideo: | tency | incr  |       |       |
| \[18\ | eters | 7     | 4     | Incr  | ease: | CDRX  |       |
| ]\[40 | adapt | 0.06% | 2.09% | ease: |       | co    |       |
| \]\[5 | ation |       |       |       | FTP/V | nfig: |       |
| 9\]** | with  |       | IM:   | FTP/V | ideo: |       |       |
|       | UE    |       | 7     | ideo: | -     | FTP/  |       |
|       | assis |       | 0.06% | 3     | 0.61% | Video |       |
|       | tance |       |       | 0.04% |       | (160, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | IM:   | 8,    |       |
|       |       |       |       | IM:   | 4.54% | 20)   |       |
|       |       |       |       | 32    |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 3.14% |       | IM    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1280, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 10,   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 20)   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| *     | Dy    | 7\~9% | B     | B     | None  | Nume  | \'sl  |
| *Sony | namic |       | aseli | aseli | (     | rical | ots\' |
| \[22\ | DRX   |       | ne{IT | ne{IT | spare | s     | is    |
| ]\[56 | indic |       | =100, | =100, | res   | imula | the   |
| \]\[6 | ation |       | slots | slots | ource | tion. | n     |
| 3\]** | DDI). |       | =16}: | =16}: | used) | FTP3  | umber |
|       |       |       | 41.0  | 47ms  |       | 0.5   | of    |
|       | PDCCH |       | units |       |       | Mbyte | slots |
|       | trigg |       |       | {I    |       |       | after |
|       | ering |       | {I    | T=100 |       | Mean  | which |
|       | s     |       | T=100 | ,slot |       | int   | the   |
|       | ignal |       | ,slot | s=2}: |       | er-ar | UE    |
|       | d     |       | s=2}: | 5     |       | rival | can   |
|       | uring |       | 38.2  | 0.9ms |       | =     | go to |
|       | DR    |       | units | =     |       | 0     | sleep |
|       | X\_ON |       | = 7%  | 8.3%  |       | .2sec | d     |
|       | dur   |       | s     | inc   |       |       | uring |
|       | ation |       | aving | rease |       | C-DRX | the   |
|       | indi  |       |       |       |       | co    | DR    |
|       | cates |       | Basel | Basel |       | nfig: | X\_ON |
|       | wh    |       | ine{I | ine{I |       | (1    | dura  |
|       | ether |       | T=40, | T=40, |       | 60,10 | tion. |
|       | UE    |       | slots | slots |       | 0,8), | Note  |
|       | can   |       | =16}: | =16}: |       | (160, | that  |
|       | go to |       | 23.4  | 5     |       | 40,8) | wi    |
|       | sleep |       | units | 9.5ms |       |       | thout |
|       | for   |       |       |       |       | FR1,  | \'D   |
|       | rema  |       | {     | {     |       | UL    | DI\', |
|       | inder |       | IT=40 | IT=40 |       | not   | UE    |
|       | of    |       | ,slot | ,slot |       | mod   | goes  |
|       | DR    |       | s=2}: | s=2}: |       | elled | to    |
|       | X\_ON |       | 20.9  | 6     |       |       | sleep |
|       |       |       | units | 3.2ms |       | High  | 8ms = |
|       |       |       | = 9%  | =     |       | SNR   | 16    |
|       |       |       | s     | 6.3%  |       |       | slots |
|       |       |       | aving | inc   |       |       | after |
|       |       |       |       | rease |       |       | start |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | DR    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | X\_ON |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| *     | Dy    | 48%   | \-    | mar   | none  | Analy |       |
| *Sony | namic |       |       | ginal |       | tical |       |
| \[22\ | DRX   |       |       |       |       | E     |       |
| ]\[56 | Con   |       |       |       |       | valua |       |
| \]\[6 | figur |       |       |       |       | tion. |       |
| 3\]** | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | FTP3  |       |
|       | Adapt |       |       |       |       | 0.1Mb |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       | ytes, |       |
|       | of    |       |       |       |       | Mean  |       |
|       | inact |       |       |       |       | int   |       |
|       | ivity |       |       |       |       | er-ar |       |
|       | timer |       |       |       |       | rival |       |
|       | (IT)  |       |       |       |       | time  |       |
|       | depe  |       |       |       |       | 2     |       |
|       | nding |       |       |       |       | sec.  |       |
|       | on    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | wh    |       |       |       |       | Base  |       |
|       | ether |       |       |       |       | line: |       |
|       | the   |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       | b     |       |       |       |       | 20/80 |       |
|       | uffer |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | empty |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | or    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | NOT   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | when  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | wakes |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | up.   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | IT is |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | set   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | to 0  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | or    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 100   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | depe  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | nding |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | on    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | b     |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | uffer |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | s     |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | tatus |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **    | 1\)   | 33    | 52%   | for   |       | Evalu | DRX1  |
| Apple | UE    | \~52% | for   | all   |       | ation | =(10, |
| \[68  | knows |       | DRX2  | DRX   |       | M     | 10,4) |
| \]\[8 | the   |       |       | conf  |       | ethod |       |
| 4\]** | cu    |       | 48%   | igura |       | =     | DRX2  |
|       | rrent |       | for   | tions |       | Nume  | =(40, |
|       | ru    |       | DRX3  |       |       | rical | 10,4) |
|       | nning |       |       | Mean  |       | S     |       |
|       | a     |       | 46%   | de    |       | imula | DRX3  |
|       | pplic |       | for   | lay=1 |       | tion, | =(40, |
|       | ation |       | DRX4  | 6.46, |       |       | 25,4) |
|       | in    |       |       | 30.3, |       | Bas   |       |
|       | d     |       | 33%   | 2     |       | eline | D     |
|       | evice |       | for   | 9.75, |       | con   | RX4=( |
|       | and   |       | DRX5  |  6    |       | figur | 160,1 |
|       | its   |       |       | 0.28, |       | ation | 00,8) |
|       | tr    |       | All   | 84.15 |       | =     |       |
|       | affic |       | w.r.t | ms    |       | DRX1, | DR    |
|       | pa    |       | DRX1  | for   |       |       | X5=(3 |
|       | ttern |       |       | DR    |       | Tr    | 20,20 |
|       | (d    |       |       | X1/2/ |       | affic | 0,10) |
|       | elay, |       |       | 3/4/5 |       | type  |       |
|       | t     |       |       |       |       | = FTP |       |
|       | hroug |       |       | Mean  |       |       |       |
|       | hput, |       |       | delay |       | 41.   |       |
|       | pe    |       |       | inc   |       | 3Mbps |       |
|       | riodi |       |       | rease |       |       |       |
|       | city, |       |       | in %  |       |       |       |
|       | etc). |       |       | for   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | DR    |       |       |       |
|       | 2\)   |       |       | X1/2/ |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       | 3/4/5 |       |       |       |
|       | can   |       |       | w.r.t |       |       |       |
|       | dete  |       |       | DRX1= |       |       |       |
|       | rmine |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | a DRX |       |       | 100.  |       |       |       |
|       | con   |       |       | 00%,  |       |       |       |
|       | figur |       |       | 184.  |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       | 08%,  |       |       |       |
|       | which |       |       | 180.  |       |       |       |
|       | works |       |       | 74%,  |       |       |       |
|       | best  |       |       | 366   |       |       |       |
|       | with  |       |       | .22%, |       |       |       |
|       | the   |       |       | 51    |       |       |       |
|       | cu    |       |       | 1.23% |       |       |       |
|       | rrent |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ap    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | plica |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | tion. |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 3\)   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | can   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | send  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | DRX   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | figur |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | reco  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | mmend |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | gNB.  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 4\)   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | If    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | pplic |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | termi |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | nated |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | or    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | done  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | with  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | file  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | tran  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | sfer, |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | then  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | can   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | reco  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | mmend |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | diff  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | erent |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | DRX   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | figur |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | (     |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | e.g., |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | with  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | laxed |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | DRX   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | cyc   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | les). |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       | 13    | 13%   |       |       | Evalu |       |
|       |       | \~56% | for   |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       | DRX1  |       |       | M     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ethod |       |
|       |       |       | 56%   |       |       | =     |       |
|       |       |       | for   |       |       | Nume  |       |
|       |       |       | DRX2  |       |       | rical |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Simul |       |
|       |       |       | 25%   |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DRX3  |       |       | Bas   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eline |       |
|       |       |       | 15%   |       |       | con   |       |
|       |       |       | for   |       |       | figur |       |
|       |       |       | DRX4  |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | =     |       |
|       |       |       | All   |       |       | DRX5, |       |
|       |       |       | w.r.t |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | DRX5  |       |       | Tr    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | affic |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | type  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | =     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VoIP  |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **N   | DRX   | -280  | FTP3: | FTP3: | Li    | Nume  | FTP3: |
| okia, | incl. | % to  | Short |       | mited | rical |       |
| NSB   | short | 47 %  | DRX i | Short | ove   | simul | Base  |
| [\    | DRX   |       | -36.9 | DRX i | rhead | ation | line: |
| [71\] | (as   |       | %;    | -88.9 | d     |       | 1453  |
| ]{.un | per   |       |       | %;    | uring | Short | 42876 |
| derli | MAC   |       | Short |       | RRC   | DRX   | u     |
| ne}** | spe   |       | DRX   | Short | con   | sc    | nits, |
|       | cific |       | ii    | DRX   | figur | hemes | short |
|       | ation |       | +29.6 | ii    | ation | com   | DRX   |
|       | 38.   |       | %     | -69.0 | of    | pared | i:    |
|       | 321). |       |       | %     | short | to    | 1989  |
|       | Eval  |       | Short |       | DRX   | base  | 60000 |
|       | uated |       | DRX   | Short |       | line: | u     |
|       | for   |       | iii   | DRX   |       | 160   | nits, |
|       | FTP3  |       | +46.7 | iii   |       | ms    | short |
|       | and   |       | %     | -33.4 |       | DRX   | DRX   |
|       | web   |       |       | %     |       | c     | ii:   |
|       | bro   |       | Web:  |       |       | ycle, | 1022  |
|       | wsing |       |       | Web:  |       | 100   | 74284 |
|       | (4 s  |       | Short |       |       | ms    | u     |
|       | re    |       | DRX i | Short |       | inact | nits, |
|       | ading |       | -     | DRX i |       | ivity | short |
|       | time) |       | 279.7 | -90.6 |       | t     | DRX   |
|       |       |       | %;    | %;    |       | imer, | iii:  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8 ms  | 774   |
|       |       |       | Short | Short |       | On    | 86778 |
|       |       |       | DRX   | DRX   |       | Dura  | u     |
|       |       |       | ii    | ii    |       | tion. | nits, |
|       |       |       | -     | -71.5 |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 167.3 | %     |       | Short | Bas   |
|       |       |       | %     |       |       | DRX   | eline |
|       |       |       |       | Short |       | i: 20 | 46.7  |
|       |       |       | Short | DRX   |       | ms    | ms,   |
|       |       |       | DRX   | iii   |       | DRX   | short |
|       |       |       | iii   | -41.2 |       | c     | DRX i |
|       |       |       | -37.4 | %     |       | ycle, | 5.2   |
|       |       |       | %     |       |       | 5 ms  | ms,   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | inact | short |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ivity | DRX   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | t     | ii    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | imer, | 14.5  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4 ms  | ms,   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | On    | short |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Dura  | DRX   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion, | iii   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 10 ms | 31.1  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | short | ms    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     | Web:  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ycle, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 10    | Base  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | short | line: |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     | 450   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ycles | 16524 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | u     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Short | nits, |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX   | short |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ii:   | DRX i |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 40 ms | 1709  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX   | 39164 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     | u     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ycle, | nits, |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5 ms  | short |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | inact | DRX   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ivity | ii    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | t     | 752   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | imer, | 98707 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4 ms  | u     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | On    | nits, |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Dura  | short |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion, | DRX   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 20 ms | iii   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | short | 618   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX   | 38460 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     | u     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ycle, | nits, |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | short | Bas   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     | eline |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ycles | 49.5  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ms,   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Short | short |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX   | DRX I |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | iii:  | 4.66  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 80 ms | ms,   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX   | short |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     | DRX   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ycle, | ii    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5 ms  | 14.1  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | inact | ms,   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ivity | short |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | t     | DRX   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | imer, | iii   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8 ms  | 29.1  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | On    | ms    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Dura  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 40 ms |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | short |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ycle, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | short |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ycles |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| *     | Adapt | 42.5% | FTP:  |       | FTP:  | SLS   |       |
| *OPPO | ation | and   | 4     |       | About |       |       |
| \[20\ | of    | 4     | 4.28% |       | 0.    | Tr    |       |
| ]\[42 | Inact | 4.28% |       |       | 0025% | affic |       |
| \]\[7 | ivity |       | IM:   |       |       | m     |       |
| 4\]** | timer |       | 42.5% |       | IM:   | odel: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | About | FTP3, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 0.    | IM    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 0025% |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CDRX  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nfig: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | FTP:  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (160, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 100,  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8)    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IM:   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (320, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 80,   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 10)   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **    | Dy    | 3     | 58%   | 71.5  | 0.    | CDRX  | Nume  |
| Intel | namic | 3.83% | for   | 527ms | 0021% | co    | rical |
| \[8   | DRX   | to    | Case  | Case  | for   | nfig: | simul |
| 1\]** | opera | 58%\  | 1     | 1     | Case1 |       | ation |
|       | tion: | w.r.t |       |       |       | Case  |       |
|       | inact | C-DRX | 4     | 63.   | 0.    | 1     | High  |
|       | ivity |       | 2.97% | 770ms | 0019% | (160, | power |
|       | timer |       | for   | for   | for   | 20 or | s     |
|       | adapt |       | Case  | Case2 | Case  | 4     | aving |
|       | ation |       | 2     |       | 2     | 0,4), | gain  |
|       | by    |       |       | 60.0  |       | Case  | can   |
|       | WUS   |       | 3     | 67ms\ | 0.    | 2(1   | be    |
|       |       |       | 3.83% | for   | 0018% | 60,40 | ach   |
|       |       |       | for   | Case  | for   | or    | ieved |
|       |       |       | Case  | 3     | Case  | 6     | by    |
|       |       |       | 3     |       | 3     | 0,4), | d     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Case  | ynami |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3(1   | cally |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 60,50 | indic |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | or    | ating |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1     | inact |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 00,4) | ivity |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | timer |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Nume  | in    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rical | WUS   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | evalu | based |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation | on    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   | tr    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     | affic |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ingle | ar    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UE    | rival |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | case, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ass   | Bas   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | uming | eline |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | a     | va    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 0.5M  | lues: |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bytes |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | p     | Av    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | acket | erage |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | takes | Powe  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5     | r/ms: |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | slots | 31    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    | .1651 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | com   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | plete | La    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   | tency |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   | (ms): |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | consi | 48    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dered | .6247 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 50%   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | geom  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | etry. |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | No    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | HARQ  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | retr  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ansmi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | is    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ass   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | umed. |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AL =  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8 is  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | as    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sumed |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDCCH |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | based |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | WUS.  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Inact |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ivity |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | timer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | value |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | is    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | set   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | by    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | WUS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | uring |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ON,   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | inact |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ivity |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | timer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | res   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tarts |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | an    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ytime |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDCCH |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | is    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rece  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ived. |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

Observation:

Dynamic DRX configuration schemes show power saving gain in the range of
8% - 70% with latency increase at 2%-323%. When the DRX configuration
and/or parameters are closely adapted to the traffic type, high power
saving gain is observed. One source shows the power saving gain -37% to
+47% over the agreed baseline with Rel-15 DRX configuration selection
adapted to the traffic with suitable short DRX.

### 5.1.5 Adaptation to achieve reducing PDCCH monitoring/decoding

The UE power consumption can be reduced when the number of UE PDCCH
monitoring occasions and/or the number of PDCCH blind decoding is
reduced.

The power saving schemes to reduce PDCCH monitoring and blind decoding
for further studies are as follows,

\- Triggering of PDCCH monitoring -- dynamic trigger through L1
signal/signaling

\- Power saving signal triggering PDCCH monitoring

\- Go-to-sleep signaling to skip PDCCH monitoring

\- PDCCH skipping -

\- DCI based indication for PDCCH skipping (e.g., indication in DCI
content, new SFI state).

\- L1 signal/signaling (other than DCI) based triggering -

\- Multiple CORESET/search space configurations

\- Configuration of different PDCCH periodicities with dynamic signaling

\- Adaptation of CORESET/search space configuration --
DCI/timer/HARQ-ACK based indication

\- Dynamic/semi-persistent CORESET/search space ON/OFF

\- Adaptation between DRX ON duration timer and inactivitytimer

\- Separated PDCCH monitoring of DL and UL

\- L1 signaling triggering to assist UE in reducing the number of PDCCH
blind decoding

\- Reduced PDCCH monitoring on SCell (including cross carrier
scheduling)

\- Network assistance -- RS is dynamically transmitted based on the need
to assist UE performing synchronization, channel tracking, measurements
and channel estimations before PDCCH decoding

Observation:

The power saving schemes for reducing PDCCH monitoring shows 5%-85%
power saving gains with different detailed schemes comparing to the
assumed baseline scheme of Rel-15 PDCCH monitoring for the purpose of
evaluation, although each of the different detailed schemes offers
various power saving gains. Lower power saving gains 5%-15% were
observed for the continuous traffic. High power saving gains 50%-85% was
observed for sporadic traffic arrival. This comes at the expense of
reduced UPT throughput in the range of 5%-43%, and increased latency in
the range of 0%-115% (which does not necessarily result in exceeding the
corresponding delay budget). This also comes at the expense of
additional overhead in the range of 0%-26.53% in terms of DL resource
usage.

Table 9: Power saving scheme with UE adaptation to reduce PDCCH
monitoring (Adaptation of PDCCH monitoring periodicity)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Co    | Power | Power | Power | U     | Esti  | Evalu | Note  |
| mpany | s     | s     | s     | PT/La | mated | ation |       |
|       | aving | aving | aving | tency | Ove   | metho | (in   |
|       | s     | gain  | gain  |       | rhead | dolog | clude |
|       | cheme |       | for   |       |       | y/bas | UE    |
|       |       |       | each  |       |       | eline | t     |
|       |       |       | con   |       |       | assum | hroug |
|       |       |       | figur |       |       | ption | hput) |
|       |       |       | ation |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| *     | Dy    | 0% \~ | 0     | Av    | No    | Nume  |       |
| *Vivo | namic | 83%   | %-74% | erage | ove   | rical |       |
| \[39  | swit  |       | (for  | p     | rhead | s     |       |
| \]\[5 | ching |       | ga    | acket | (use  | imula |       |
| 8\]** | of    |       | ming, | Lat   | the   | tion; |       |
|       | PDCCH |       | and   | ency: | addit |       |       |
|       | monit |       | for   | 2     | ional | Bas   |       |
|       | oring |       | all   | 0.30\ | bits  | eline |       |
|       | per   |       | UE)   | ~0.40 | in    | a     |       |
|       | iodic |       |       | ms;   | sched | ssump |       |
|       | ities |       |       |       | uling | tion: |       |
|       | by    |       |       | La    | DCI)  |       |       |
|       | DCI   |       |       | tency |       | 1)    |       |
|       |       |       |       | incr  |       | Fixed |       |
|       |       |       |       | ease: |       | PDCCH |       |
|       |       |       |       | 0%\   |       | monit |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~140% |       | oring |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | p     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eriod |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | icity |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | wi    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | thout |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CDRX; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2)    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CDRX; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Tra   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ffic: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | g     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | aming |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ftp   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | model |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | 6     | Av    |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | %-59% | erage |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | (for  | p     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | FTP3, | acket |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | and   | Lat   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | for   | ency: |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | UE of | 37.   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 5     | 41\~1 |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | perce | 06.62 |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ntile | ms;   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | SINR) |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | La    |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tency |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | incr  |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ease: |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -90%  |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \~84% |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | 3     | Av    |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | %-80% | erage |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | (for  | p     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | FTP3, | acket |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | and   | Lat   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | for   | ency: |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | UE of | 28.   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 50    | 13\~1 |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | perce | 01.53 |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ntile | ms;   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | SINR) |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | La    |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tency |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | incr  |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ease: |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -92%  |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~115% |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | 2     | Av    |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | %-83% | erage |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | (for  | p     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | FTP3, | acket |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | and   | Lat   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | for   | ency: |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | UE of | 27.   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 95    | 26\~1 |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | perce | 00.88 |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ntile | ms;   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | SINR) |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | La    |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tency |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | incr  |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ease: |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | -92%  |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ~118% |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| *     | Adapt | 20%   | 20%   | Av    | No    | Nume  |       |
| *Vivo | ation |       |       | erage | ove   | rical |       |
| \[39  | of    |       |       | p     | rhead | s     |       |
| \]\[5 | COR   |       |       | acket |       | imula |       |
| 8\]** | SET/s |       |       | Lat   |       | tion; |       |
|       | earch |       |       | ency: |       |       |       |
|       | space |       |       | 1 ms; |       | Bas   |       |
|       | con   |       |       |       |       | eline |       |
|       | figur |       |       | La    |       | a     |       |
|       | ation |       |       | tency |       | ssump |       |
|       | --    |       |       | incr  |       | tion: |       |
|       | HAR   |       |       | ease: |       | UE    |       |
|       | Q-ACK |       |       | 0%    |       | monit |       |
|       | based |       |       |       |       | oring |       |
|       | indic |       |       |       |       | of    |       |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       | PDCCH |       |
|       | (UE   |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       | monit |       |       |       |       | earch |       |
|       | oring |       |       |       |       | space |       |
|       | of    |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       | PDCCH |       |       |       |       | retr  |       |
|       | s     |       |       |       |       | ansmi |       |
|       | earch |       |       |       |       | ssion |       |
|       | space |       |       |       |       | is    |       |
|       | for   |       |       |       |       | confi |       |
|       | retr  |       |       |       |       | gured |       |
|       | ansmi |       |       |       |       | by    |       |
|       | ssion |       |       |       |       | RRC;  |       |
|       | is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | trig  |       |       |       |       | Tra   |       |
|       | gered |       |       |       |       | ffic: |       |
|       | by    |       |       |       |       | VoIP  |       |
|       | dec   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | oding |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | fa    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ilure |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | SPS   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | P     |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | DSCH) |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| *     | UE    | 85%   | 85%   | Av    | Mar   | Nume  |       |
| *Vivo | r     |       |       | erage | ginal | rical |       |
| \[5   | eport |       |       | p     |       | s     |       |
| 8\]** | pref  |       |       | acket |       | imula |       |
|       | erred |       |       | lat   |       | tion; |       |
|       | PDCCH |       |       | ency: |       |       |       |
|       | monit |       |       | 20.   |       | Bas   |       |
|       | oring |       |       | 30ms; |       | eline |       |
|       | p     |       |       |       |       | a     |       |
|       | arame |       |       | La    |       | ssump |       |
|       | ters, |       |       | tency |       | tion: |       |
|       | eval  |       |       | incr  |       | Fixed |       |
|       | uated |       |       | ease: |       | PDCCH |       |
|       | for   |       |       | The   |       | monit |       |
|       | g     |       |       | delay |       | oring |       |
|       | aming |       |       | r     |       | p     |       |
|       | a     |       |       | equir |       | eriod |       |
|       | pplic |       |       | ement |       | icity |       |
|       | ation |       |       | of    |       | of    |       |
|       |       |       |       | g     |       | 0     |       |
|       |       |       |       | aming |       | .5ms; |       |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 60ms) |       | Tr    |       |
|       |       |       |       | can   |       | affic |       |
|       |       |       |       | be    |       | m     |       |
|       |       |       |       | fulfi |       | odel: |       |
|       |       |       |       | lled. |       | g     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | aming |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| *     | PDCCH | 5     | 5     | Av    | Mar   | Nume  |       |
| *Vivo | monit | %-50% | %-32% | erage | ginal | rical |       |
| \[5   | oring |       | for   | p     |       | simul |       |
| 8\]** | adapt |       | UE of | acket |       | ation |       |
|       | ation |       | 5     | Lat   |       |       |       |
|       | be    |       | perce | ency: |       | Bas   |       |
|       | tween |       | ntile | 32-88 |       | eline |       |
|       | DRX   |       | SINR  | ms;   |       | a     |       |
|       | ONdur |       |       |       |       | ssump |       |
|       | ation |       |       | La    |       | tion: |       |
|       | timer |       |       | tency |       | same  |       |
|       | and   |       |       | incr  |       | PDCCH |       |
|       | inact |       |       | ease: |       | monit |       |
|       | ivity |       |       | 5     |       | oring |       |
|       | timer |       |       | %-24% |       | conf  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | igura |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | be    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tween |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ONdur |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | timer |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | i     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nacti |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | vityt |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | imer; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Tr    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | affic |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | m     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | odel: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ftp   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | model |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | 7     | Av    |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | %-47% | erage |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | for   | p     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | UE of | acket |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 50    | Lat   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | perce | ency: |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ntile | 23-82 |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | SINR  | ms;   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | La    |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tency |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | incr  |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ease: |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 6     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | %-38% |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       | 7     | Av    |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | %-50% | erage |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | for   | p     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | UE of | acket |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 95    | Lat   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | perce | ency: |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | ntile | 22-81 |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | SINR  | ms;   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | La    |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | tency |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | incr  |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ease: |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 7     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | %-42% |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **Med | PDCCH | 2     | FTP/V | La    | RU    | SLS   | PDCCH |
| iatek | p     | 2.42% | ideo: | tency | Incr  |       | p     |
| \[18\ | eriod | \~    | 3     | Incr  | ease: | CDRX  | eriod |
| ]\[40 | adapt | 3     | 3.33% | ease: |       | co    | is    |
| \]\[5 | ation | 3.33% |       |       | FTP/V | nfig: | ad    |
| 9\]** | via   |       | IM:   | FTP/V | ideo: |       | apted |
|       | DCI   |       | 3     | ideo: | -     | FTP/  | to 8  |
|       |       |       | 0.76% | 1     | 1.25% | Video | slot  |
|       |       |       |       | 5.27% |       | (160, | after |
|       |       |       | VoIP: |       | IM:   | 100,  | DCI   |
|       |       |       | 2     | IM:   | 0%    | 8)    | indic |
|       |       |       | 2.42% | 1.25% |       |       | ation |
|       |       |       |       |       | VoIP: | IM    | d     |
|       |       |       |       | VoIP: | -     | (320, | uring |
|       |       |       |       | 7.90% | 1.02% | 80,   | data  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 10)   | inact |
|       |       |       |       |       | DCI   |       | ivity |
|       |       |       |       |       | Ove   | VoIP  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | rhead | (40,  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | (w    | 10,   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | .r.t. | 4)    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | data  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DCI): |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | FTP/V |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ideo: |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 6.03% |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | IM:   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 4     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 3.78% |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | VoIP: |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 9     |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 5.30% |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **Med | PDCCH | 6.48% | FTP/V | La    | RU    | SLS   | PDCCH |
| iatek | p     | \~    | ideo: | tency | Incr  |       | p     |
| \[5   | eriod | 2     | 2     | Incr  | ease: | CDRX  | eriod |
| 9\]** | adapt | 9.94% | 9.94% | ease: |       | co    | is    |
|       | ation |       |       |       | FTP/V | nfig: | ad    |
|       | via   |       | IM:   | FTP/V | ideo: |       | apted |
|       | tim   |       | 2     | ideo: | -     | FTP/  | to 8  |
|       | e-out |       | 8.47% | 1     | 0.95% | Video | slot  |
|       |       |       |       | 4.94% |       | (160, | after |
|       |       |       | VoIP: |       | IM:   | 100,  | tim   |
|       |       |       | 6.48% | IM:   | 0%    | 8)    | e-out |
|       |       |       |       | 1.26% |       |       | d     |
|       |       |       |       |       | VoIP: | IM    | uring |
|       |       |       |       | VoIP: | 0%    | (320, | data  |
|       |       |       |       | 0.75% |       | 80,   | inact |
|       |       |       |       |       | DCI   | 10)   | ivity |
|       |       |       |       |       | Ove   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | rhead | VoIP  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | (w    | (40,  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | .r.t. | 10,   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | data  | 4)    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | DCI): |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | FTP/V |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | ideo: |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 0%    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | IM:   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 0%    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | VoIP: |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       | 0%    |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **Med | Joint | 3     | FTP/V | La    | RU    | SLS   | WUS   |
| iatek | Power | 5.14% | ideo: | tency | Incr  |       | power |
| \[5   | S     | \~    | 3     | Incr  | ease: | CDRX  | value |
| 9\]** | aving | 4     | 2.85% | ease: |       | co    | is    |
|       | Adapt | 5.09% |       |       | FTP/V | nfig: | the   |
|       | ation |       | IM:   | FTP/V | ideo: |       | same  |
|       | by    |       | 4     | ideo: | -     | FTP/  | as    |
|       | ext   |       | 5.09% | 2     | 1.04% | Video | that  |
|       | ended |       |       | 0.57% |       | (160, | of    |
|       | BWP   |       | VoIP: |       | IM:   | 100,  | cross |
|       | fram  |       | 3     | IM:   | 1.30% | 8)    | -slot |
|       | ework |       | 5.53% | 1     |       |       | PDCCH |
|       |       |       |       | 1.06% | VoIP: | IM    | -only |
|       |       |       |       |       | -     | (320, | monit |
|       |       |       |       | VoIP: | 5.10% | 80,   | oring |
|       |       |       |       | 1     |       | 10)   |       |
|       |       |       |       | 1.92% |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VoIP  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (40,  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 10,   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4)    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **ZTE | PDCCH | 25%   | FTP   |       |       | Nume  | Peak  |
| \[19\ | monit |       | traf  |       |       | rical | t     |
| ]\[41 | oring |       | fic:2 |       |       | s     | hroug |
| \]\[6 | p     |       | 5.43% |       |       | imula | hput: |
| 1\]** | eriod |       |       |       |       | tion; | 10-s  |
|       | icity |       | In    |       |       |       | ymbol |
|       | adapt |       | stant |       |       | CDRX  | PDSCH |
|       | ation |       | Mess  |       |       | co    | in    |
|       | d     |       | age:2 |       |       | nfig: | one   |
|       | uring |       | 5.89% |       |       |       | slot; |
|       | the   |       |       |       |       | FTP   | 100   |
|       | DRX   |       |       |       |       | tr    | MHz   |
|       | a     |       |       |       |       | affic | BWP   |
|       | ctive |       |       |       |       | (     |       |
|       | time  |       |       |       |       | 160,1 | No    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 00,8) | UL.   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | In    | S     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | stant | ingle |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Me    | UE    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssage |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 320,8 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 0,10) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Base  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | line: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PDCCH |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | monit |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oring |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | at    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | each  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | slot  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | d     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | uring |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | a     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ctive |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | time  |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **L   | PDCCH | 2     |       | UPT   |       | Tr    | Refe  |
| G\[46 | monit | 2.01% |       | loss: |       | affic | rence |
| \]\[6 | oring | \~    |       |       |       | m     | sch   |
| 2\]** | p     | 3     |       | 1     |       | odel: | emes: |
|       | eriod | 6.17% |       | .60%- |       | FTP3  | PDCCH |
|       | icity |       |       | 4.33% |       | with  | monit |
|       | adapt |       |       |       |       | file  | oring |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       | size  | pe    |
|       | d     |       |       |       |       | 0.5   | riodi |
|       | uring |       |       |       |       | Mbps, | city: |
|       | the   |       |       |       |       |       | 1     |
|       | DRX   |       |       |       |       | DRX   | slot, |
|       | a     |       |       |       |       | con   | K0=0  |
|       | ctive |       |       |       |       | figur |       |
|       | time  |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       | based |       |       |       |       | (     |       |
|       | on    |       |       |       |       | 160,1 |       |
|       | a     |       |       |       |       | 00,8) |       |
|       | ctual |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | tr    |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ansmi |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ssion |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **Son | Re    | 2     | Base  | Base  | 0     | Nume  | \"N\" |
| y\[22 | duced | 0-34% | line: | line: |       | rical | is    |
| \]\[6 | PDCCH |       | 41    | 47ms  |       | s     | n     |
| 3\]** | monit |       | units |       |       | imula | umber |
|       | oring |       |       | N=2:4 |       | tion. | of    |
|       | while |       | N=2:  | 7.6ms |       | FTP3  | slots |
|       | the   |       | 32.8  | =     |       | 0.5M  | be    |
|       | inact |       | unit  | 1.5%  |       | byte. | tween |
|       | ivity |       | = 20% | inc   |       | Ar    | which |
|       | timer |       | s     | rease |       | rival | PDCCH |
|       | is    |       | aving |       |       | rate  | is    |
|       | ru    |       |       | N=4:4 |       | = 0.2 | moni  |
|       | nning |       | N=4:  | 9.1ms |       | sec   | tored |
|       |       |       | 28.9  | =     |       |       | in    |
|       |       |       | units | 4.5%  |       | Base  | inact |
|       |       |       | = 30% | inc   |       | line: | ivity |
|       |       |       | s     | rease |       | C-DRX | pe    |
|       |       |       | aving |       |       | c     | riod. |
|       |       |       |       | N=8:5 |       | onfig | PDCCH |
|       |       |       | N=8:  | 2.4ms |       | =     | moni  |
|       |       |       | 27.1  | =     |       | 160/  | tored |
|       |       |       | units | 11.5% |       | 100/8 | for 1 |
|       |       |       | = 34% | inc   |       |       | slot  |
|       |       |       | s     | rease |       | FR1.  |       |
|       |       |       | aving |       |       | No UL | La    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mod   | tency |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | elled | is    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | inc   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | High  | rease |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SNR   | rel   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ative |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | bas   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | eline |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | (full |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | monit |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | oring |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | bas   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | eline |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | la    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | tency |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | is    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 47ms) |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **Sa  | Dy    | 63.8% | Imp   | 1.66G | no    | Nume  | S     |
| msung | namic |       | licit | bps/0 |       | rical | ingle |
| \[34  | sc    |       | adapt | .52ms |       | simul | UE.   |
| \]\[6 | aling |       | ation |       |       | ation |       |
| 4\]** | of    |       | cri   |       |       |       | Power |
|       | PDCCH |       | teria |       |       | No    | model |
|       | monit |       | with  |       |       | C     | for   |
|       | oring |       | p     |       |       | -DRX, | RS    |
|       | perio |       | arame |       |       |       | based |
|       | dicit |       | ters, |       |       | FTP3  | power |
|       | y/dur |       | (X1   |       |       | tr    | s     |
|       | ation |       | /X2/a |       |       | affic | aving |
|       | based |       | lpha/ |       |       | model | s     |
|       | on    |       | beta) |       |       | w/    | ignal |
|       | imp   |       | =     |       |       | mean  | detec |
|       | licit |       |       |       |       | of    | tion: |
|       | adapt |       | (1/   |       |       | in    | 55    |
|       | ation |       | 1/0.5 |       |       | ter-p | power |
|       | cri   |       | /0.5) |       |       | acket | units |
|       | teria |       |       |       |       | arr   |       |
|       | based |       |       |       |       | ivals | One   |
|       | on    |       |       |       |       | = 4ms | PDSCH |
|       | real  |       |       |       |       |       | over  |
|       | -time |       |       |       |       |       | 10    |
|       | dete  |       |       |       |       |       | sy    |
|       | ction |       |       |       |       |       | mbols |
|       | re    |       |       |       |       |       | in    |
|       | sults |       |       |       |       |       | one   |
|       | of    |       |       |       |       |       | slot  |
|       | DCI   |       |       |       |       |       | is    |
|       | fo    |       |       |       |       |       | ca    |
|       | rmats |       |       |       |       |       | pable |
|       | for   |       |       |       |       |       | of    |
|       | sched |       |       |       |       |       | car   |
|       | uling |       |       |       |       |       | rying |
|       | PD    |       |       |       |       |       | 8     |
|       | SCH/P |       |       |       |       |       | 68584 |
|       | USCH. |       |       |       |       |       | i     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | nform |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | bits. |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **In  | Re    | 32%   | 4     | La    |       | SLS   | 10    |
| terdi | duced | \~    | 9.6%, | tency |       |       | UEs   |
| gital | PDCCH | 50%   | 3     | incr  |       | Case  | per   |
| \[6   | monit |       | 3.5%, | eases |       | 1     | cell  |
| 6\]** | oring |       | 32.0% | by    |       | (160, |       |
|       | by    |       |       | 116%, |       | 100,  | Av    |
|       | incre |       |       | 50%,  |       | 8),   | erage |
|       | asing |       |       | 56%   |       | Case  | gain  |
|       | PDCCH |       |       |       |       | 2     |       |
|       | monit |       |       |       |       | (40,  | La    |
|       | oring |       |       |       |       | 25,   | tency |
|       | p     |       |       |       |       | 4),   | inc   |
|       | eriod |       |       |       |       |       | rease |
|       | icity |       |       |       |       | Case  | due   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3(40, | to    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 10,   | fixed |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4)    | monit |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | oring |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Case  | pe    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4     | riodi |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (320, | city. |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 80,   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 10)   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IM    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (Case |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2, 3, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4)    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

Observation:

PDCCH monitoring periodicity configurations can be dynamically adapted
based on explicit/implicit signaling, and works with or without C-DRX.
The power saving gain over the agreed baseline in the range of 5% \~
63.8% is observed, with latency increase in the range of 1.25% \~ 38%
and overhead 0% -1.3 %. One source shows 85% power saving gain with
latency 118%. The high latency is due to the not-fully-flexible PDCCH
monitoring. If non-adaptive PDCCH periodicity is applied, one source
shows 32% - 50% power saving gain subject to 56% - 116% latency
increase. Generally, the larger the PDCCH monitoring periodicity, the
larger the power saving gain but the associated latency increase would
be higher.

Table 10: Power saving scheme with triggering UE adaptation to reduce
PDCCH monitoring (PDCCH skipping, \"go-to-sleep\" signal)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| *     | **    | **    | **    | **UPT | *     | **    | **N   |   |
| *Comp | Power | Power | Power | /Late | *Esti | Evalu | ote** |   |
| any** | s     | s     | s     | ncy** | mated | ation |       |   |
|       | aving | aving | aving |       | Overh | metho | **(in |   |
|       | sch   | g     | gain  |       | ead** | dolog | clude |   |
|       | eme** | ain** | for   |       |       | y/bas | UE    |   |
|       |       |       | each  |       |       | eline | thr   |   |
|       |       |       | confi |       |       | as    | oughp |   |
|       |       |       | gurat |       |       | sumpt | ut)** |   |
|       |       |       | ion** |       |       | ion** |       |   |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+===+
| **Med | R     | 4     | FTP/V | La    | RU    | CDRX  |       |   |
| iatek | el-15 | 2.21% | ideo: | tency | incr  | co    |       |   |
| \[5   | MA    | \~    | 5     | Incr  | ease: | nfig: |       |   |
| 9\]** | C-CE- | 5     | 6.05% | ease: |       |       |       |   |
|       | based | 6.05% |       |       | FTP/V | FTP/  |       |   |
|       | G     |       | IM:   | FTP/V | ideo: | Video |       |   |
|       | o-To- |       | 4     | ideo: | -     | (160, |       |   |
|       | Sleep |       | 8.30% | 7     | 1.25% | 100,  |       |   |
|       | signa |       |       | 7.54% |       | 8)    |       |   |
|       | lling |       | VoIP: |       | IM:   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | 4     | IM:   | 0.65% | IM    |       |   |
|       |       |       | 2.21% | 9.84% |       | (320, |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | VoIP: | 80,   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | VoIP: | -2    | 10)   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 5     | 6.53% |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 9.39% |       | VoIP  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (40,  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 10,   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4)    |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| **H   | G     | 9.22% | Av    | UPT:  | 1.    | SLS   | 10    |   |
| uawei | o-to- | \~    | erage | 5.5   | 45\*1 |       | UEs   |   |
| \[5   | sleep | 2     | p     | 8%\~3 | 0^-6^ | DRX   | in a  |   |
| 7\]** | (GTS) | 7.31% | ower: | 9.15% | \~    | co    | cell  |   |
|       | sign  |       | (76.4 |       | 1.    | nfig: |       |   |
|       | aling |       | 5/69. | Lat   | 24\*1 | (320, |       |   |
|       |       |       | 40)\~ | ency: | 0^-4^ | 200,  |       |   |
|       |       |       | (97   | 0.0   |       | 10),  |       |   |
|       |       |       | .75/7 | 4%\~1 |       | (320, |       |   |
|       |       |       | 1.05) | 8.69% |       | 80,   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 10),  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (160, |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 100,  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8),   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (160, |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 40,   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8),   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (40,  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 25,   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4),   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (40,  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 10,   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4)    |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| *     | DCI   | 0     | 0     | Av    | One   | Nume  |       |   |
| *Vivo | exp   | %-83% | %-57% | erage | PDCCH | rical |       |   |
| \[39  | licit |       | (for  | p     | per   | s     |       |   |
| \]\[5 | indic |       | g     | acket | 40 ms | imula |       |   |
| 8\]** | ation |       | aming | Lat   |       | tion; |       |   |
|       | of    |       | and   | ency: |       |       |       |   |
|       | PDCCH |       | for   | 20.81 |       | Bas   |       |   |
|       | monit |       | all   | ms;   |       | eline |       |   |
|       | oring |       | UE)   |       |       | a     |       |   |
|       | occa  |       |       | La    |       | ssump |       |   |
|       | sions |       |       | tency |       | tion: |       |   |
|       | w     |       |       | incr  |       |       |       |   |
|       | ithin |       |       | ease: |       | 1)    |       |   |
|       | a     |       |       | 3     |       | Fixed |       |   |
|       | p     |       |       | %-24% |       | PDCCH |       |   |
|       | eriod |       |       |       |       | monit |       |   |
|       | icity |       |       |       |       | oring |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | p     |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eriod |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | icity |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | wi    |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | thout |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CDRX; |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2)    |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CDRX; |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Tra   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ffic: |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | g     |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | aming |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ftp   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | model |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       | 6     | Av    | One   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | %-59% | erage | PDCCH |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | (for  | p     | per   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | FTP3, | acket | 50,   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | and   | Lat   | 160   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | for   | ency: | and   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | UE of | 40    | 200   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | 5     | .11-1 | ms    |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | perce | 19.45 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | ntile | ms;   |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | SINR) |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | La    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | tency |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | incr  |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ease: |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | -89%  |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | -106% |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       | 3     | Av    | One   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | %-80% | erage | PDCCH |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | (for  | p     | per   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | FTP3, | acket | 50,   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | and   | Lat   | 160   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | for   | ency: | and   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | UE of | 29    | 200   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | 50    | .37-1 | ms    |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | perce | 05.25 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | ntile | ms;   |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | SINR) |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | La    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | tency |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | incr  |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ease: |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | -92%  |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | -122% |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       | 2     | Av    | One   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | %-83% | erage | PDCCH |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | (for  | p     | per   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | FTP3, | acket | 50,   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | and   | Lat   | 160   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | for   | ency: | and   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | UE of | 28    | 200   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | 95    | .23-1 | ms    |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | perce | 03.65 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | ntile | ms;   |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | SINR) |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | La    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | tency |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | incr  |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ease: |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | -92%  |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | -124% |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| **Med | Ski   | 2     | FTP/V | La    | RU    | CDRX  | Repea |   |
| iatek | pping | 2.44% | ideo: | tency | Incr  | co    | tedly |   |
| \[5   | PDCCH | \~    | 3     | Incr  | ease: | nfig: | ski   |   |
| 9\]** | for a | 3     | 3.17% | ease: |       |       | pping |   |
|       | spec  | 3.17% |       |       | FTP/V | FTP/  | 7     |   |
|       | ified |       | IM:   | FTP/V | ideo: | Video | slots |   |
|       | time  |       | 3     | ideo: | -     | (160, | of    |   |
|       | via   |       | 0.76% | 1     | 1.34% | 100,  | PDCCH |   |
|       | DCI   |       |       | 4.62% |       | 8)    | monit |   |
|       |       |       | VoIP: |       | IM:   |       | oring |   |
|       |       |       | 2     | IM:   | 0%    | IM    | after |   |
|       |       |       | 2.44% | 1.28% |       | (320, | DCI   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | VoIP: | 80,   | indic |   |
|       |       |       |       | VoIP: | -     | 10)   | ation |   |
|       |       |       |       | 7.82% | 1.02% |       | d     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | VoIP  | uring |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | DCI   | (40,  | data  |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | Ove   | 10,   | inact |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | rhead | 4)    | ivity |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | (w    |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | .r.t. |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | data  |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | DCI): |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | FTP/V |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | ideo: |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | 9     |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | 3.91% |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | IM:   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | 125   |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | 0.81% |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | VoIP: |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | 28    |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       | 6.02% |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| **CAT | Power | 50.3% | ftp3  | \--   | Power | SLS   |       |   |
| T\[21 | s     | \~    | with  |       | s     | with  |       |   |
| \]\[6 | aving | 65.9% | 320ms |       | aving | 10UE  |       |   |
| 0\]** | s     |       | DRX-c |       | s     | per   |       |   |
|       | ignal |       | ycle: |       | ignal | TRP   |       |   |
|       | tr    |       | 50.3% |       | is    | to    |       |   |
|       | igger |       |       |       | sm    | get   |       |   |
|       | PDCCH |       | IM    |       | aller | tr    |       |   |
|       | redu  |       | with  |       | PDCCH | ansmi |       |   |
|       | ction |       | 160ms |       | over  | ssion |       |   |
|       | and   |       | DRX-c |       | head. | rate, |       |   |
|       | power |       | ycle: |       |       | and   |       |   |
|       | s     |       | 65.9% |       |       | obs   |       |   |
|       | aving |       |       |       |       | erved |       |   |
|       | refe  |       |       |       |       | one   |       |   |
|       | rence |       |       |       |       | s     |       |   |
|       | s     |       |       |       |       | ingle |       |   |
|       | ignal |       |       |       |       | UE    |       |   |
|       | for   |       |       |       |       | for   |       |   |
|       | ch    |       |       |       |       | power |       |   |
|       | annel |       |       |       |       | co    |       |   |
|       | trac  |       |       |       |       | nsump |       |   |
|       | king, |       |       |       |       | tion. |       |   |
|       | CSI   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | me    |       |       |       |       | Base  |       |   |
|       | asure |       |       |       |       | line: |       |   |
|       | ment. |       |       |       |       | R     |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 15DRX |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sc    |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | heme, |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | onsid |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ering |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | proc  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | edure |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ch    |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | annel |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | trac  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | king, |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CSI   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | me    |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | asure |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ment. |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | FTP3  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 0.5M  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bytes |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 200ms |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | int   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | er-ar |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rival |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | time, |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IM    |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 0.1M  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bytes |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2s    |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | int   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | er-ar |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rival |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | time  |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| **ZTE | Power | 21    | Sleep |       |       | Nume  | Peak  |   |
| \[19\ | s     | %-54% | dur   |       |       | rical | t     |   |
| ]\[41 | aving |       | ation |       |       | s     | hroug |   |
| \]\[6 | s     |       | =2ms: |       |       | imula | hput: |   |
| 1\]** | ignal |       |       |       |       | tion; | 10-s  |   |
|       | trigg |       | 22    |       |       |       | ymbol |   |
|       | ering |       | %-28% |       |       | FTP3  | PDSCH |   |
|       | UE go |       |       |       |       | m     | in    |   |
|       | to    |       | Sleep |       |       | odel: | one   |   |
|       | sleep |       | dur   |       |       | file  | slot; |   |
|       | by    |       | ation |       |       | si    | 100   |   |
|       | indic |       | =4ms: |       |       | ze=0. | MHz   |   |
|       | ating |       |       |       |       | 1Mbps | BWP   |   |
|       | a     |       | 21    |       |       | ,mean |       |   |
|       | sleep |       | %-33% |       |       | int   | No    |   |
|       | dur   |       |       |       |       | er-ar | UL.   |   |
|       | ation |       | Sleep |       |       | rival |       |   |
|       |       |       | dur   |       |       | time  | S     |   |
|       |       |       | ation |       |       | 20    | ingle |   |
|       |       |       | =8ms: |       |       | 0msec | UE    |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | 29    |       |       | CDRX  |       |   |
|       |       |       | %-54% |       |       | co    |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nfig: |       |   |
|       |       |       | Sleep |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | dura  |       |       | 40    |       |   |
|       |       |       | tion= |       |       | -10-4 |       |   |
|       |       |       | 16ms: |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 40    |       |   |
|       |       |       | 32    |       |       | -25-4 |       |   |
|       |       |       | %-54% |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 160   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | -40-8 |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 160-  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 100-8 |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 320-  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 80-10 |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 320-2 |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 00-10 |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Base  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | line: |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | No    |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | GTS   |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| **L   | GTS   | >     |       | UPT   |       | Tr    | Refe  |   |
| G\[46 | trigg | \(1\) |       | loss: |       | affic | rence |   |
| \]\[6 | ering | > 44. |       |       |       | m     | sch   |   |
| 2\]** | sleep | 12%-7 |       | >     |       | odel: | emes: |   |
|       |       | 5.72% |       | \(1\) |       | FTP3  | PDCCH |   |
|       | >     | >     |       | > 27. |       | with  | monit |   |
|       | \(1\) | >     |       | 30%-4 |       | file  | oring |   |
|       | > Via | \(2\) |       | 1.57% |       | size  | pe    |   |
|       | > MAC | > 45. |       | >     |       | 0.5   | riodi |   |
|       | > me  | 56%-7 |       | >     |       | Mbps, | city: |   |
|       | ssage | 8.43% |       | \(2\) |       |       | 1     |   |
|       | >     |       |       | > 30. |       | DRX   | slot, |   |
|       | >     |       |       | 60%-4 |       | con   | K0=0  |   |
|       | \(2\) |       |       | 3.02% |       | figur |       |   |
|       | > Via |       |       |       |       | ation |       |   |
|       | > L1  |       |       |       |       | (     |       |   |
|       | >     |       |       |       |       | 160,1 |       |   |
|       |  sign |       |       |       |       | 00,8) |       |   |
|       | aling |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| **Sa  | Dy    | 38.7% | RS    | 1.68G | PDCCH | Nume  | S     |   |
| msung | namic |       | based | bps/0 | DMRS  | rical | ingle |   |
| \[34  | PDSCH |       | power | .52ms | like  | simul | UE.   |   |
| \]\[6 | rece  |       | s     |       | power | ation |       |   |
| 4\]** | ption |       | aving |       | s     |       | One   |   |
|       | wi    |       | s     |       | aving | No    | PDSCH |   |
|       | thout |       | ignal |       | s     | C     | over  |   |
|       | PDCCH |       | for   |       | ignal | -DRX, | 10    |   |
|       |       |       | PDSCH |       | is    |       | sy    |   |
|       |       |       | rece  |       | consi | FTP3  | mbols |   |
|       |       |       | ption |       | dered | tr    | in    |   |
|       |       |       | indic |       | for   | affic | one   |   |
|       |       |       | ation |       | PDSCH | model | slot  |   |
|       |       |       | with  |       | rece  | w/    | is    |   |
|       |       |       | monit |       | ption | mean  | ca    |   |
|       |       |       | oring |       | i     | of    | pable |   |
|       |       |       | p     |       | ndica | in    | of    |   |
|       |       |       | eriod |       | tion. | ter-p | car   |   |
|       |       |       | icity |       |       | acket | rying |   |
|       |       |       | of    |       |       | arr   | 8     |   |
|       |       |       | 1     |       |       | ivals | 68584 |   |
|       |       |       | slot/ |       |       | = 8ms | i     |   |
|       |       |       | 0.5ms |       |       |       | nform |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | bits. |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| **In  | Re    | 24% - | FTP:  | No    |       | SLS   | 10    |   |
| terdi | duced | 51%   | 2     | i     |       |       | UEs   |   |
| gital | PDCCH |       | 8.1%, | mpact |       | Case  | per   |   |
| \[6   | monit |       | 2     |       |       | 1     | cell  |   |
| 6\]** | oring |       | 7.1%, |       |       | (160, |       |   |
|       | by    |       | 24.2% |       |       | 100,  | Av    |   |
|       | info  |       |       |       |       | 8),   | erage |   |
|       | rming |       | IM:   |       |       | Case  | gain  |   |
|       | UE of |       | 5     |       |       | 2     |       |   |
|       | sched |       | 0.1%, |       |       | (40,  | H     |   |
|       | uling |       | 5     |       |       | 25,   | igher |   |
|       | pa    |       | 0.7%, |       |       | 4),   | gain  |   |
|       | ttern |       | 33.8% |       |       |       | obs   |   |
|       | in    |       |       |       |       | Case  | erved |   |
|       | ad    |       |       |       |       | 3(40, | for   |   |
|       | vance |       |       |       |       | 10,   | IM    |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4)    | tr    |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | affic |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Case  | with  |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4     | sh    |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (320, | orter |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 80,   | DRX   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 10)   | c     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ycle. |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | FTP   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (Case |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1, 2, |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3)    |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IM    |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (Case |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2, 3, |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4)    |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| **    | 1\)   | 37%   | 71%   |       |       | Evalu | DRX1  |   |
| Apple | gNB   | \~71% | for   |       |       | ation | =(10, |   |
| \[68  | can   |       | low   |       |       | M     | 10,4) |   |
| \]\[8 | send  |       | load  |       |       | ethod |       |   |
| 4\]** | sleep |       | when  |       |       | =     | DRX2  |   |
|       | indic |       | mean  |       |       | Nume  | =(40, |   |
|       | ation |       | i     |       |       | rical | 10,4) |   |
|       | to UE |       | nter- |       |       | Simul |       |   |
|       | to    |       | grant |       |       | ation | DRX3  |   |
|       | make  |       | ar    |       |       |       | =(40, |   |
|       | UE    |       | rival |       |       | Bas   | 25,4) |   |
|       | enter |       | T is  |       |       | eline |       |   |
|       | sleep |       | 20    |       |       | has   | D     |   |
|       | state |       | s     |       |       | no    | RX4=( |   |
|       | (     |       | lots. |       |       | DRX   | 160,1 |   |
|       | e.g., |       |       |       |       | c     | 00,8) |   |
|       | ski   |       | 55%   |       |       | onsid |       |   |
|       | pping |       | for   |       |       | ered. | DR    |   |
|       | PDCCH |       | m     |       |       |       | X5=(3 |   |
|       | ) for |       | edium |       |       |       | 20,20 |   |
|       | spec  |       | load  |       |       |       | 0,10) |   |
|       | ified |       | (     |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | a     |       | T=10) |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | mount |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | of    |       | 37%   |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | time. |       | for   |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       | high  |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | 2\)   |       | load  |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | UE    |       | (T=5) |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | e     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | nters |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | sleep |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | state |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | (     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | e.g., |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | ski   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | pping |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | PDCCH |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | m     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | onito |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | ring) |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | spec  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | ified |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | mount |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | time  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | once  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | it    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | rec   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | eives |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | sleep |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | indic |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | from  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | gNB.  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       | 1\)   | 57    | 69%   | 2     |       | Evalu |       |   |
|       | gNB   | \~69% | for   | 0Mbps |       | ation |       |   |
|       | can   |       | DRX5  |       |       | M     |       |   |
|       | send  |       |       |       |       | ethod |       |   |
|       | sleep |       | 57%   |       |       | =     |       |   |
|       | indic |       | for   |       |       | Nume  |       |   |
|       | ation |       | DRX4  |       |       | rical |       |   |
|       | (     |       |       |       |       | S     |       |   |
|       | e.g., |       |       |       |       | imula |       |   |
|       | when  |       |       |       |       | tion, |       |   |
|       | DL    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | queue |       |       |       |       | DR    |       |   |
|       | is    |       |       |       |       | X5=(3 |       |   |
|       | e     |       |       |       |       | 20,20 |       |   |
|       | mpty) |       |       |       |       | 0,10) |       |   |
|       | to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | make  |       |       |       |       | D     |       |   |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       | RX4=( |       |   |
|       | enter |       |       |       |       | 160,1 |       |   |
|       | sleep |       |       |       |       | 00,8) |       |   |
|       | state |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | until |       |       |       |       | Bas   |       |   |
|       | next  |       |       |       |       | eline |       |   |
|       | ON    |       |       |       |       | has   |       |   |
|       | dura  |       |       |       |       | no    |       |   |
|       | tion. |       |       |       |       | GTS   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |   |
|       | 2\)   |       |       |       |       | ignal |       |   |
|       | If UE |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | rec   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | eives |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | sleep |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | i     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | ndica |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | tion, |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | s     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | leeps |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | (     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | e.g., |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | skip  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | PDCCH |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | m     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | onito |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | ring) |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | until |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | next  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | ON    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | dura  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | tion. |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| **Qua | PDCCH | Ideal | For   | La    |       | SLS   | > \-  |   |
| lcomm | ski   | i     | PDCCH | tency |       |       | >     |   |
| \[30\ | pping | ndica | p     | inc   |       | *     |  Gain |   |
| ]\[48 |       | tion: | eriod | rease |       | *FR1, | > in  |   |
| \]\[7 |       |       |       | for   |       | no    | > av  |   |
| 0\]** |       | 11.4  | 1     | PDCCH |       | DRX** | erage |   |
|       |       | \~    | slot: | p     |       |       | >     |   |
|       |       | 47.3% | 47.3% | eriod |       | FTP3, | power |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | $k0   | > c   |   |
|       |       |       | 2     | 1     |       | > 0$, | onsum |   |
|       |       |       | s     | slot: |       | g     | ption |   |
|       |       |       | lots: | 0.57% |       | enie- | >     |   |
|       |       |       | 31.5% |       |       | aided | > \-  |   |
|       |       |       |       | 2     |       | PDCCH | > Bas |   |
|       |       |       | 4     | slot: |       | ski   | eline |   |
|       |       |       | s     | 0.80% |       | pping | > lat |   |
|       |       |       | lots: |       |       | indic | ency: |   |
|       |       |       | 19.3% | 4     |       | ation | > 8   |   |
|       |       |       |       | slot: |       |       | 7.6ms |   |
|       |       |       | 8     | 1.37% |       |       | > (   |   |
|       |       |       | s     |       |       |       | PDCCH |   |
|       |       |       | lots: | 8     |       |       | > p   |   |
|       |       |       | 11.4% | slot: |       |       | eriod |   |
|       |       |       |       | 2.50% |       |       | > 1   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | >     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | slot) |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       | SFI-  | For   | La    | Sign  | SLS   |       |   |
|       |       | based | PDCCH | tency | aling |       |       |   |
|       |       | i     | p     | inc   | over  | *     |       |   |
|       |       | ndica | eriod | rease | head: | *FR1, |       |   |
|       |       | tion: |       | for   | ski   | no    |       |   |
|       |       |       | 1     | PDCCH | pping | DRX** |       |   |
|       |       | 7.8%  | slot: | p     | indic |       |       |   |
|       |       | \~    | 44.6% | eriod | ation | FTP3, |       |   |
|       |       | 44.6% |       |       | (SFI) | $k0   |       |   |
|       |       |       | 2     | 1     | t     | > 0$, |       |   |
|       |       |       | s     | slot: | ransm | SFI-  |       |   |
|       |       |       | lots: | 0.57% | itted | based |       |   |
|       |       |       | 28.5% |       | at    | PDCCH |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 2     | rate  | ski   |       |   |
|       |       |       | 4     | slot: | of    | pping |       |   |
|       |       |       | s     | 0.80% | 2     | indic |       |   |
|       |       |       | lots: |       | 0.75% | ation |       |   |
|       |       |       | 16.0% | 4     |       | with  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | slot: |       | p     |       |   |
|       |       |       | 8     | 1.37% |       | eriod |       |   |
|       |       |       | s     |       |       | icity |       |   |
|       |       |       | lots: | 8     |       | of 8  |       |   |
|       |       |       | 7.8%  | slot: |       | slots |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 2.50% |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       | Ideal | For   | La    |       | SLS   | > \-  |   |
|       |       | i     | PDCCH | tency |       |       | >     |   |
|       |       | ndica | p     | inc   |       | *     |  Gain |   |
|       |       | tion: | eriod | rease |       | *FR2, | > in  |   |
|       |       |       |       | for   |       | no    | > av  |   |
|       |       | 21.4  | 1     | PDCCH |       | DRX** | erage |   |
|       |       | \~    | slot: | p     |       |       | >     |   |
|       |       | 67%   | 67.0% | eriod |       | FTP3, | power |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | $k0   | > c   |   |
|       |       |       | 2     | 1     |       | > 0$, | onsum |   |
|       |       |       | s     | slot: |       | g     | ption |   |
|       |       |       | lots: | 0.46% |       | enie- | >     |   |
|       |       |       | 50.7% |       |       | aided | > \-  |   |
|       |       |       |       | 2     |       | PDCCH | > Bas |   |
|       |       |       | 4     | slot: |       | ski   | eline |   |
|       |       |       | s     | 0.91% |       | pping | > lat |   |
|       |       |       | lots: |       |       | indic | ency: |   |
|       |       |       | 34.4% | 4     |       | ation | > 2   |   |
|       |       |       |       | slot: |       |       | 1.9ms |   |
|       |       |       | 8     | 1.37% |       |       | > (   |   |
|       |       |       | s     |       |       |       | PDCCH |   |
|       |       |       | lots: | 8     |       |       | > p   |   |
|       |       |       | 21.4% | slot: |       |       | eriod |   |
|       |       |       |       | 2.74% |       |       | > 1   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | >     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | slot) |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       | SFI-  | For   | La    | Sign  | SLS   |       |   |
|       |       | based | PDCCH | tency | aling |       |       |   |
|       |       | i     | p     | inc   | over  | *     |       |   |
|       |       | ndica | eriod | rease | head: | *FR2, |       |   |
|       |       | tion: |       | la    | ski   | no    |       |   |
|       |       |       | 1     | tency | pping | DRX** |       |   |
|       |       | 11.9  | slot: | for   | indic |       |       |   |
|       |       | \~    | 62.3% | PDCCH | ation | FTP3, |       |   |
|       |       | 62.3% |       | p     | (SFI) | $k0   |       |   |
|       |       |       | 2     | eriod |       | > 0$, |       |   |
|       |       |       | s     |       | t     | SFI-  |       |   |
|       |       |       | lots: | 1     | ransm | based |       |   |
|       |       |       | 44.4% | slot: | itted | PDCCH |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 0.46% | at    | ski   |       |   |
|       |       |       | 4     |       | rate  | pping |       |   |
|       |       |       | s     | 2     | of    | i     |       |   |
|       |       |       | lots: | slot: | 2     | ndica |       |   |
|       |       |       | 26.4% | 0.91% | 0.75% | tions |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |   |
|       |       |       | 8     | 4     |       | p     |       |   |
|       |       |       | s     | slot: |       | eriod |       |   |
|       |       |       | lots: | 1.37% |       | icity |       |   |
|       |       |       | 11.9% |       |       | of 8  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 8     |       | s     |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | slot: |       | lots. |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 2.74% |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       | Ideal | For   | La    |       | SLS   | > \-  |   |
|       |       | i     | PDCCH | tency |       |       | >     |   |
|       |       | ndica | p     | inc   |       | *     |  Gain |   |
|       |       | tion: | eriod | rease |       | *FR2, | > in  |   |
|       |       |       |       | for   |       | CDRX  | > av  |   |
|       |       | 15.2  | 1     | PDCCH |       | c     | erage |   |
|       |       | \~    | slot: | p     |       | onfig | >     |   |
|       |       | 53.5% | 53.5% | eriod |       | =     | power |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (160, | > c   |   |
|       |       |       | 2     | 1     |       | 100,  | onsum |   |
|       |       |       | s     | slot: |       | 4)**  | ption |   |
|       |       |       | lots: | 0.14% |       |       | >     |   |
|       |       |       | 37.6% |       |       | FTP3, | > \-  |   |
|       |       |       |       | 2     |       | $k0   | > Bas |   |
|       |       |       | 4     | slot: |       | > 0$, | eline |   |
|       |       |       | s     | 0.28% |       | g     | > lat |   |
|       |       |       | lots: |       |       | enie- | ency: |   |
|       |       |       | 24.3% | 4     |       | aided | > 71  |   |
|       |       |       |       | slot: |       | PDCCH | .85ms |   |
|       |       |       | 8     | 0.42% |       | ski   | > (   |   |
|       |       |       | s     |       |       | pping | PDCCH |   |
|       |       |       | lots: | 8     |       | indic | > p   |   |
|       |       |       | 15.2% | slot: |       | ation | eriod |   |
|       |       |       |       | 0.84% |       |       | > 1   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | >     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |  slot |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       | Ideal | For   | La    |       | SLS   | > \-  |   |
|       |       | i     | PDCCH | tency |       |       | >     |   |
|       |       | ndica | p     | inc   |       | *     |  Gain |   |
|       |       | tion: | eriod | rease |       | *FR2, | > in  |   |
|       |       |       |       | for   |       | CDRX  | > av  |   |
|       |       | 30.9  | 1     | PDCCH |       | c     | erage |   |
|       |       | \~    | slot: | p     |       | onfig | >     |   |
|       |       | 61.8% | 61.8% | eriod |       | =     | power |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (160, | > c   |   |
|       |       |       | 2     | 1     |       | 40,   | onsum |   |
|       |       |       | s     | slot: |       | 4)**  | ption |   |
|       |       |       | lots: | 0.13% |       |       | >     |   |
|       |       |       | 49.0% |       |       | FTP3, | > \-  |   |
|       |       |       |       | 2     |       | $k0   | > Bas |   |
|       |       |       | 4     | slot: |       | > 0$, | eline |   |
|       |       |       | s     | 0.25% |       | g     | > lat |   |
|       |       |       | lots: |       |       | enie- | ency: |   |
|       |       |       | 38.2% | 4     |       | aided | > 80  |   |
|       |       |       |       | slot: |       | PDCCH | .25ms |   |
|       |       |       | 8     | 0.37% |       | ski   | > (   |   |
|       |       |       | s     |       |       | pping | PDCCH |   |
|       |       |       | lots: | 8     |       | indic | > p   |   |
|       |       |       | 30.9% | slot: |       | ation | eriod |   |
|       |       |       |       | 0.75% |       |       | > 1   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | >     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | slot) |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| *     | PDCCH | 4     | FTP:  |       | FTP:  | S     |       |   |
| *OPPO | ski   | 5.77% | 4     |       | 0.3%  | ystem |       |   |
| \[20\ | pping | and   | 5.77% |       |       | level |       |   |
| ]\[42 |       | 6     |       |       | IM:   | s     |       |   |
| \]\[7 |       | 0.82% | IM:   |       | 0.3%  | imula |       |   |
| 4\]** |       |       | 6     |       |       | tion. |       |   |
|       |       |       | 0.82% |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Tr    |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | affic |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | m     |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | odel: |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | FTP3  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IM    |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CDRX  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nfig: |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | FTP:  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (160, |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 100,  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8)    |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | IM:   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (320, |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 80,   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 10)   |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| **    | Power | 48.5- | 4     | 64.3  |       | 5%    | S     |   |
| Intel | s     | 71.5% | 8.52% | /54.4 |       |       | ystem |   |
| \[45  | aving |       |       | MBps  |       |       | level |   |
| \]\[6 | s     |       |       | (1    |       |       | s     |   |
| 5\]** | ignal |       |       | 5.4%) |       |       | imula |   |
|       | (g    |       |       | /     |       |       | tion. |   |
|       | o-to- |       |       | 85.8/ |       |       |       |   |
|       | sleep |       |       | 100.1 |       |       | FTP   |   |
|       | si    |       |       | ms    |       |       | model |   |
|       | gnal) |       |       | (1    |       |       | 3\    |   |
|       | trigg |       |       | 6.6%) |       |       | 160,  |   |
|       | ering |       |       |       |       |       | 100,  |   |
|       | UE go |       |       |       |       |       | 8     |   |
|       | to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | sleep |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | spec  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | ified |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | mount |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       | time  |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       | 5     | 87.0  |       | 50%   |       |   |
|       |       |       | 8.64% | /71.4 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | (1    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 7.9%) |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 59.8  |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | /72.0 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | (2    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 0.3%) |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       | 6     | 91.4  |       | 95%   |       |   |
|       |       |       | 1.93% | /73.2 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | (1    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 9.8%) |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 55.7  |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | /68.8 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | (2    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 3.6%) |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       | 6     | 5.79  |       | 5%    | S     |   |
|       |       |       | 6.96% | /5.36 |       |       | ystem |   |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       | level |   |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       | simul |   |
|       |       |       |       | 7.4%) |       |       | ation |   |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 1     |       |       | In    |   |
|       |       |       |       | 45.9/ |       |       | stant |   |
|       |       |       |       | 156.9 |       |       | Messa |   |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       | ging\ |   |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       | 320,  |   |
|       |       |       |       | 7.6%) |       |       | 80,   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 10    |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       | 6     | 6.07  |       | 50%   |       |   |
|       |       |       | 7.74% | /5.59 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 8.0%) |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 1     |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 42.2/ |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 153.7 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 8.1%) |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       | 6     | 5.90  |       | 95%   |       |   |
|       |       |       | 8.35% | /5.36 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 9.1%) |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 1     |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 44.2/ |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 158.2 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 9.7%) |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       | 5     | 0.0   |       | 5%    | S     |   |
|       |       |       | 8.93% | 286/0 |       |       | ystem |   |
|       |       |       |       | .0164 |       |       | level |   |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       | s     |   |
|       |       |       |       | (4    |       |       | imula |   |
|       |       |       |       | 2.6%) |       |       | tion. |   |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 10.2  |       |       | VoIP\ |   |
|       |       |       |       | /23.8 |       |       | 40,   |   |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       | 10, 4 |   |
|       |       |       |       | (13   |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 4.3%) |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       | 5     | 0.0   |       | 50%   |       |   |
|       |       |       | 9.93% | 279/0 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | .0148 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | (4    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 7.0%) |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 10.2  |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | /27.1 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | (16   |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 5.2%) |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       | 6     | 0.0   |       | 95%   |       |   |
|       |       |       | 0.49% | 289/0 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | .0154 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | (4    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 6.6%) |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 10.1  |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | /26.8 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | (16   |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 5.3%) |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       | 6     | 0.0   |       | 5%    | S     |   |
|       |       |       | 7.03% | 568/0 |       |       | ystem |   |
|       |       |       |       | .0252 |       |       | level |   |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       | s     |   |
|       |       |       |       | (5    |       |       | imula |   |
|       |       |       |       | 5.7%) |       |       | tion. |   |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 16.8  |       |       | Ga    |   |
|       |       |       |       | /23.0 |       |       | ming\ |   |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       | 40,   |   |
|       |       |       |       | (3    |       |       | 10, 4 |   |
|       |       |       |       | 6.6%) |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       | 6     | 0.0   |       | 50%   |       |   |
|       |       |       | 8.82% | 531/0 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | .0252 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | (5    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 2.5%) |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 17.2  |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | /22.7 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | (3    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 1.9%) |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       | 6     | 0.0   |       | 95%   |       |   |
|       |       |       | 8.28% | 491/0 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | .0289 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | (4    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 1.2%) |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 16.0  |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | /21.9 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | (3    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 6.9%) |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       | 5     | 2.26  |       | 5%    | S     |   |
|       |       |       | 9.57% | /1.98 |       |       | ystem |   |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       | level |   |
|       |       |       |       | (1    |       |       | s     |   |
|       |       |       |       | 2.5%) |       |       | imula |   |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       | tion. |   |
|       |       |       |       | 1     |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 32.9/ |       |       | Web   |   |
|       |       |       |       | 148.8 |       |       | brow  |   |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       | sing\ |   |
|       |       |       |       | (1    |       |       | 320,  |   |
|       |       |       |       | 1.9%) |       |       | 80,   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 10    |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       | 59.6% | 2.33  |       | 50%   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | /2.05 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | (1    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 2.2%) |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 1     |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 30.9/ |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 145.8 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | (1    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 1.4%) |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       | 5     | 2.27  |       | 95%   |       |   |
|       |       |       | 9.67% | /1.94 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | (1    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 4.2%) |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 1     |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 30.3/ |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 148.2 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | (1    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 3.7%) |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       | 7     | 0.1   |       | 5%    | S     |   |
|       |       |       | 0.16% | 152/0 |       |       | ystem |   |
|       |       |       |       | .0613 |       |       | level |   |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       | s     |   |
|       |       |       |       | (4    |       |       | imula |   |
|       |       |       |       | 6.8%) |       |       | tion. |   |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 8.58/ |       |       | Video |   |
|       |       |       |       | 19.79 |       |       | strea |   |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       | ming\ |   |
|       |       |       |       | (13   |       |       | 40,   |   |
|       |       |       |       | 0.7%) |       |       | 10, 4 |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       | 7     | 0.1   |       | 50%   |       |   |
|       |       |       | 1.55% | 192/0 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | .0625 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | (4    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 7.6%) |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 8.44/ |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 19.79 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | (13   |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 4.4%) |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
|       |       |       | 7     | 0.1   |       | 95%   |       |   |
|       |       |       | 1.42% | 155/0 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | .0615 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | MBps  |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | (4    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 6.7%) |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | /     |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 8.74/ |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 19.88 |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | (12   |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       | 7.6%) |       |       |       |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
| **N   | G     | DRX:  | DRX:  | DRX:  | GTS   | Nume  | DRX:  |   |
| okia, | o-to- |       |       |       | is    | rical |       |   |
| NSB   | sleep | 3-44  | Ver   | Ver   | inc   | simul | No    |   |
| \[7   | si    | %     | sion1 | sion1 | luded | ation | GTS:  |   |
| 1\]** | gnal. |       |       |       | in    |       | 1412  |   |
|       | DCI-b | Short | 600   | 600   | the   | Re    | 72445 |   |
|       | ased, | DRX:  | s     | s     | PDCCH | sults | u     |   |
|       | indic |       | lots: | lots: | DCI   | are   | nits, |   |
|       | ating | 7-17  | +3.1  | +1.0  | so    | com   |       |   |
|       | the   | %     | %     | %     | minor | pared | Vers  |   |
|       | UE    |       |       |       | ove   | to    | ion1: |   |
|       | can   |       | 400   | 400   | rhead | each  |       |   |
|       | sleep |       | s     | s     |       | DRX   | 600   |   |
|       | until |       | lots: | lots: |       | con   | slots |   |
|       | next  |       | +7.9  | +3.7  |       | figur | 1369  |   |
|       | On    |       | %     | %     |       | ation | 19235 |   |
|       | Dura  |       |       |       |       | wi    | u     |   |
|       | tion. |       | 200   | 200   |       | thout | nits, |   |
|       | Based |       | s     | s     |       | GTS.  | 400   |   |
|       | on a  |       | lots: | lots: |       |       | slots |   |
|       | sl    |       | +44.2 | +21.9 |       | Vers  | 1301  |   |
|       | iding |       | %     | %     |       | ion1: | 27331 |   |
|       | w     |       |       |       |       | send  | u     |   |
|       | indow |       | Ver   | Ver   |       | GTS   | nits, |   |
|       | che   |       | sion2 | sion2 |       | if    | 200   |   |
|       | cking |       |       |       |       | w     | slots |   |
|       | past  |       | 600   | 600   |       | indow | 787   |   |
|       | x ms  |       | s     | s     |       | is    | 68183 |   |
|       |       |       | lots: | lots: |       | empty | u     |   |
|       |       |       | 0 %   | 0 %   |       |       | nits, |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Vers  |       |   |
|       |       |       | 400   | 400   |       | ion2: | Ve    |   |
|       |       |       | s     | s     |       | send  | rsion |   |
|       |       |       | lots: | lots: |       | GTS   | 2     |   |
|       |       |       | +3.0  | +1.0  |       | if    |       |   |
|       |       |       | %     | %     |       | w     | 600   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | indow | slots |   |
|       |       |       | 200   | 200   |       | is    | 1412  |   |
|       |       |       | s     | s     |       | empty | 72445 |   |
|       |       |       | lots: | lots: |       | and   | u     |   |
|       |       |       | +36.1 | +18.4 |       | Inact | nits, |   |
|       |       |       | %     | %     |       | ivity | 400   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Timer | slots |   |
|       |       |       | Short | Short |       | is    | 1370  |   |
|       |       |       | DRX:  | DRX:  |       | ru    | 92359 |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nning | u     |   |
|       |       |       | Ver   | Ver   |       |       | nits, |   |
|       |       |       | sion1 | sion1 |       | Long  | 200   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX   | slots |   |
|       |       |       | 600   | 600   |       | cycle | 902   |   |
|       |       |       | s     | s     |       | only  | 70831 |   |
|       |       |       | lots: | lots: |       | (as   | u     |   |
|       |       |       | +7.2  | +2.8  |       | per   | nits, |   |
|       |       |       | %     | %     |       | MAC   |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | spe   | No    |   |
|       |       |       | 400   | 400   |       | cific | GTS   |   |
|       |       |       | s     | s     |       | ation | 51.1  |   |
|       |       |       | lots: | lots: |       | 38.   | ms    |   |
|       |       |       | +11.3 | +4.2  |       | 321). |       |   |
|       |       |       | %     | %     |       |       | Ve    |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Made  | rsion |   |
|       |       |       | 200   | 200   |       | for   | 1:    |   |
|       |       |       | s     | s     |       | FTP3  |       |   |
|       |       |       | lots: | lots: |       |       | 600   |   |
|       |       |       | +17.4 | +2.8  |       | [Case | slots |   |
|       |       |       | %     | %     |       | s]{.u | 51.6  |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nderl | ms,   |   |
|       |       |       | Ver   | Ver   |       | ine}: | 400   |   |
|       |       |       | sion2 | sion2 |       |       | slots |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX:  | 53.0  |   |
|       |       |       | 600   | 600   |       | 160   | ms,   |   |
|       |       |       | s     | s     |       | ms    | 200   |   |
|       |       |       | lots: | lots: |       | DRX   | slots |   |
|       |       |       | 0 %   | 0 %   |       | c     | 62.3  |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ycle, | ms    |   |
|       |       |       | 400   | 400   |       | 100   |       |   |
|       |       |       | s     | s     |       | ms    | Ve    |   |
|       |       |       | lots: | lots: |       | inact | rsion |   |
|       |       |       | 0 %   | 0 %   |       | ivity | 2:    |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | t     |       |   |
|       |       |       | 200   | 200   |       | imer, | 600   |   |
|       |       |       | s     | s     |       | 8 ms  | slots |   |
|       |       |       | lots: | lots: |       | On    | 51.1  |   |
|       |       |       | 0 %   | 0 %   |       | Dura  | ms,   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion. | 400   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | slots |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Short | 51.6  |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX:  | ms,   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 40 ms | 200   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX   | slots |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     | 60.5  |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ycle, | ms    |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5 ms  |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | inact | Short |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ivity | DRX:  |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | t     |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | imer, | No    |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4 ms  | GTS:  |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | On    | 1009  |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Dura  | 34244 |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tion, | u     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 20 ms | nits, |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | short |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX   | Vers  |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     | ion1: |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ycle, |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5     | 600   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | short | slots |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     | 936   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ycles | 76773 |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | u     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | GTS   | nits, |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | wi    | 400   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ndows | slots |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | are   | 895   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 600,  | 02438 |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 400,  | u     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 200   | nits, |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | slots | 200   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | slots |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 833   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 27871 |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | u     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | nits, |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | Ve    |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | rsion |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 2     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 600   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | slots |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 1009  |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 34244 |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | u     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | nits, |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 400   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | slots |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 1009  |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 34244 |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | u     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | nits, |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 200   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | slots |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 1009  |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 34244 |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | u     |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | nits, |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | No    |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | GTS   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 14.3  |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ms    |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | Ve    |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | rsion |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 1:    |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 600   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | slots |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 14.7  |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ms,   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 400   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | slots |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 14.9  |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ms,   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 200   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | slots |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 14.7  |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ms    |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | Ve    |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | rsion |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 2:    |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 600   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | slots |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 14.3  |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ms,   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 400   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | slots |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 14.3  |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ms,   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 200   |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | slots |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 14.3  |   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ms    |   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+

Table 10-1: Power saving scheme with PDCCH skipping or \"go-to-sleep\"
signal comparing with short DRX

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Co    | Power | Power | Power | U     | Esti  | Evalu | Note  |
| mpany | s     | s     | s     | PT/La | mated | ation |       |
|       | aving | aving | aving | tency | Ove   | metho | (in   |
|       | s     | gain  | gain  |       | rhead | dolog | clude |
|       | cheme |       | for   |       |       | y/bas | UE    |
|       |       |       | each  |       |       | eline | t     |
|       |       |       | con   |       |       | assum | hroug |
|       |       |       | figur |       |       | ption | hput) |
|       |       |       | ation |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| **    | Long  | 36%   | Cast  | 41.22 |       | CDRX  | S     |
| Intel | DRX   | to    | 1:    | and   |       | co    | ystem |
| \[10  | oper  | 58%\  | Bas   | 21.93 |       | nfig: | Throu |
| 1\]** | ation | w.r.t | eline | ms    |       |       | ghput |
|       | with  | C-DRX |       | for   |       | Case  |       |
|       | PDCCH |       | 36%   | Case  |       | 1(80, | 107.4 |
|       | ski   |       | for   | 1     |       | 5,8   | and   |
|       | pping |       | Case  |       |       | or    | 108.6 |
|       |       |       | 2     | 47.03 |       | 40,5, | for   |
|       | inact |       |       | and   |       | 4) ,  | Case1 |
|       | ivity |       | 46%   | 26 ms |       |       |       |
|       | timer |       | for   | for   |       | Case  | 95.2  |
|       | adapt |       | Case  | Case2 |       | 2(    | and   |
|       | ation |       | 3     |       |       | 80,5, | 161   |
|       | by    |       |       | 30.57 |       | 8 or  | for   |
|       | WUS   |       | 54%   | and   |       | 40,5, | Case2 |
|       |       |       | for   | 18.92 |       | 4) +  |       |
|       | Long  |       | Case  | ms    |       | GTS   | 140.8 |
|       | and   |       | 4     | for   |       |       | and   |
|       | short |       |       | Case  |       | Case  | 217.8 |
|       | DRX   |       | 24.98 | 3     |       | 3(    | for   |
|       |       |       | for   |       |       | 80,5, | Case3 |
|       |       |       | Cast  | 36.96 |       | 8 or  |       |
|       |       |       | 5     | and   |       | 40,   | 118.8 |
|       |       |       |       | 26.72 |       | 5, 4) | and   |
|       |       |       | 20.73 | ms    |       | +     | 191   |
|       |       |       | for   | for   |       | short | for   |
|       |       |       | Case  | Case  |       | DRX   | Case4 |
|       |       |       | 6     | 4     |       | (     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 40,-, | 78.7  |
|       |       |       | 18.9  | 63.25 |       | 3)    | for   |
|       |       |       | for   | ms    |       |       | Case5 |
|       |       |       | Case  | for   |       | Case  |       |
|       |       |       | 7     | Case5 |       | 3(    | 75.6  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 80,5, | for   |
|       |       |       | 19.07 | 66.25 |       | 8 or  | Case6 |
|       |       |       | for   | ms    |       | 40,   |       |
|       |       |       | Case  | for   |       | 5, 4) | 72.5  |
|       |       |       | 8     | Case6 |       | +     | for   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | short | Case7 |
|       |       |       |       | 68.58 |       | DRX   |       |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       | (20   | 56.3  |
|       |       |       |       | for   |       | ,-,5) | for   |
|       |       |       |       | Case7 |       |       | Case8 |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Case  |       |
|       |       |       |       | 90.37 |       | 5     |       |
|       |       |       |       | ms    |       | (160, |       |
|       |       |       |       | for   |       | 100,8 |       |
|       |       |       |       | Case8 |       | ) +   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | GTS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 10,   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Case  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 6(160 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ,100, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8) +  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | GTS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 20    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Case  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (160, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 100,8 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ) +   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | GTS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 40,   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Case  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8(160 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ,100, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8) +  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MAC   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CE    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **X   | Long  | 7.69% | 5     | 43 ms |       | CDRX  | For   |
| iaomi | DRX   | to    | 8.97% | for   |       | co    | inact |
| \[10  | opera | 84    | for   | cas 0 |       | nfig: | ivity |
| 2\]** | tion: | .62%\ | Case  |       |       |       | timer |
|       | with  | w.r.t | 11    | 51 ms |       | Case  | =     |
|       | PDCCH | Long  |       | for   |       | 0     | 5ms,  |
|       | ski   | C-DRX | 3     | Case  |       | (160, | big   |
|       | pping |       | 8.42% | 11    |       | 1     | power |
|       |       |       | for   |       |       | 00,8) | s     |
|       | Long  |       | Case  | 47 ms |       | ,     | aving |
|       | and   |       | 12    | for   |       |       | loss  |
|       | short |       |       | C     |       | Case  | for   |
|       | inact |       | 7     | ase12 |       | 1     | all   |
|       | ivity |       | 9.49% |       |       | 1(160 | cases |
|       | timer |       | for   | 83 ms |       | ,100, | wi    |
|       | adapt |       | Case  | for   |       | 8) +  | thout |
|       | ation |       | 2     | Case  |       | PS 10 | WUS   |
|       |       |       |       | 2     |       |       | were  |
|       | w and |       | 7.69% |       |       | Case  | obse  |
|       | w/o   |       | w/o   | 44 ms |       | 1     | rved. |
|       | WUS   |       | WUS   | w/o   |       | 2(160 |       |
|       |       |       | and   | WUS   |       | ,100, | The   |
|       | Long  |       | 6     | and   |       | 8) +  | power |
|       | and   |       | 9.29% | 51 ms |       | PS 5  | s     |
|       | short |       | w WUS | w WUS |       |       | aving |
|       | DRX   |       | for   | for   |       | Case  | s     |
|       |       |       | Cast  | C     |       | 2     | cheme |
|       |       |       | 21    | ase21 |       | (160  | with  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ,100, | PDCCH |
|       |       |       | 3     | 45 ms |       | 8) +  | skip  |
|       |       |       | 3.33% | w/o   |       | MAC   | ping, |
|       |       |       | w/o   | WUS   |       | CE    | WUS   |
|       |       |       | WUS   | and   |       |       | or    |
|       |       |       | and   | 52 ms |       | Case  | MAC   |
|       |       |       | 7     | w WUS |       | 21    | shows |
|       |       |       | 9.49% | for   |       | (160, | compa |
|       |       |       | w WUS | C     |       | 100,8 | rable |
|       |       |       | for   | ase22 |       | )     | power |
|       |       |       | Cast  |       |       | +     | co    |
|       |       |       | 22    | 47 ms |       | short | nsump |
|       |       |       |       | w/o   |       | D     | tion. |
|       |       |       | 5     | WUS   |       | RX10, |       |
|       |       |       | 1.28% | and   |       |       | The   |
|       |       |       | w/o   | 53 ms |       | Case  | la    |
|       |       |       | WUS   | w WUS |       | 2     | tency |
|       |       |       | and   | for   |       | 2(160 | of    |
|       |       |       | 8     | C     |       | ,100, | all   |
|       |       |       | 2.05% | ase23 |       | 8) +  | power |
|       |       |       | w WUS |       |       | short | s     |
|       |       |       | for   | 55 ms |       | DRX   | aving |
|       |       |       | Cast  | w/o   |       | 20    | s     |
|       |       |       | 23    | WUS   |       |       | cheme |
|       |       |       |       | and   |       | Case  | is    |
|       |       |       | 6     | 61 ms |       | 23    | red   |
|       |       |       | 9.29% | w WUS |       | (160, | uced. |
|       |       |       | w/o   | for   |       | 100,8 |       |
|       |       |       | WUS   | C     |       | ) +   |       |
|       |       |       | and   | ase24 |       | short |       |
|       |       |       | 8     |       |       | DRX   |       |
|       |       |       | 4.62% |       |       | 40,   |       |
|       |       |       | w WUS |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | for   |       |       | Case  |       |
|       |       |       | Cast  |       |       | 2     |       |
|       |       |       | 24    |       |       | 4(160 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ,100, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8) +  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | short |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 80    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

Observation:

Reduction of PDCCH monitoring can also be achieved with
explicit/implicit information for UE to skip monitoring PDCCH. A related
approach, such as power saving signal/channel triggering/enabling PDCCH
monitoring or \"go-to-sleep\" signaling where the gNB can signal the UE
to go to the DRX OFF state or skip the PDCCH monitoring, is considered.
Power saving gain in the range of 9%\~83% is observed, with latency
increase in the range of 0.1%\~75% and overhead of 0% - 1% with one
source showing 124% latency increase. Generally, the gain is higher for
scenarios with CDRX configuration with larger DRX inactivity timer
duration and for lower traffic load, and higher latency increase is
associated with higher gain.

Table 11: Power saving schemes with CORESET/Search Space/blind decoding
reduction

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| *     | **    | **    | **    | **UPT | *     | **    | **N   |
| *Comp | Power | Power | Power | /Late | *Esti | Evalu | ote** |
| any** | s     | s     | s     | ncy** | mated | ation |       |
|       | aving | aving | aving |       | Overh | metho | **(in |
|       | sch   | g     | gain  |       | ead** | dolog | clude |
|       | eme** | ain** | for   |       |       | y/bas | UE    |
|       |       |       | each  |       |       | eline | thr   |
|       |       |       | confi |       |       | as    | oughp |
|       |       |       | gurat |       |       | sumpt | ut)** |
|       |       |       | ion** |       |       | ion** |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| **N   | R     | 3-24% | 32:   | No    |       | Nume  | It is |
| okia, | educe |       | +2.8  | la    |       | rical | shown |
| NSB   | PDCCH |       | %     | tency |       | simul | in    |
| \[37  | blind |       |       | i     |       | ation | \     |
| \]\[5 | dec   |       | 16:   | mpact |       |       | [99\] |
| 1\]** | oding |       | +14.1 | eval  |       | FTP3, | that  |
|       | from  |       | %     | uated |       | DRX   | ass   |
|       | refe  |       |       |       |       | con   | uming |
|       | rence |       | 8:    |       |       | figur | that  |
|       | (36)  |       | +19.7 |       |       | ation | ¼ or  |
|       | to    |       | %     |       |       | (160, | ½ of  |
|       | {32,  |       |       |       |       | 40,   | the   |
|       | 16,   |       | 4:    |       |       | 8)    | UEs   |
|       | 8, 4, |       | +22.5 |       |       | with  | to be |
|       | 2}    |       | %     |       |       | \#    | sche  |
|       | candi |       |       |       |       | blind | duled |
|       | dates |       | 2:    |       |       | dec   | in a  |
|       |       |       | +23.9 |       |       | oding | CO    |
|       |       |       | %     |       |       | candi | RESET |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dates | op    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | =     | erate |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \[32, | in    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 16,   | e     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8, 4, | nergy |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2\].  | s     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | The   | aving |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bas   | mode  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eline | with  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | refe  | n     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rence | umber |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | has   | of    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   | blind |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | same  | dec   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DRX   | oding |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | con   | candi |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | figur | dates |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation | re    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | but   | duced |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 36    | by    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | blind | 50%   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dec   | will  |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oding | cause |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     | an    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | andid | inc   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ates. | rease |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | av    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | erage |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | blo   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | cking |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | p     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | robab |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ility |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | by    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 50%   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 100%, |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | orres |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | pondi |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ngly. |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **Sa  | Redu  | /w    | w/    | 1     | DCI   | Nume  | S     |
| msung | ction | CDRX  | CDRX  | 9Mbps | based | rical | ingle |
| \[34  | on    |       |       | /     | power | simul | UE.   |
| \]\[6 | PDCCH | 26.7% | (26.  | 4     | s     | ation |       |
| 4\]** | candi | \~    | 7%/26 | 5.6ms | aving |       | One   |
|       | dates | 2.7%  | %,24. |       | s     | FTP3  | PDSCH |
|       | in    |       | 5%,21 | 1.    | ignal | tr    | over  |
|       | achi  | w/o   | .3%,1 | 7Gbps | for   | affic | 10    |
|       | eving | CDRX  | 5.1%, | /     | trigg | model | sy    |
|       | PDCCH |       | 2.7%) | 0.5ms | ering | w/    | mbols |
|       | blind | 28.9% |       |       | adapt | mean  | in    |
|       | dec   | \~    | w/o   |       | ation | of    | one   |
|       | oding | 3.3%  | CDRX  |       | with  | in    | slot  |
|       | redu  |       |       |       | m     | ter-p | is    |
|       | ction |       | (     |       | onito | acket | ca    |
|       |       |       | 28.9% |       | ring, | arr   | pable |
|       |       |       | /28.1 |       | T =   | ivals | of    |
|       |       |       | %/26. |       | 1     | =     | car   |
|       |       |       | 5%/23 |       | 024ms | 200ms | rying |
|       |       |       | .2%/1 |       |       |       | 8     |
|       |       |       | 6.5%/ |       |       | N     | 68584 |
|       |       |       | 3.3%) |       |       | umber | i     |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of    | nform |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | BDs   | ation |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | e     | bits. |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | quals |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (1,2, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4,8,1 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 6,32) |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

Observation:

PDCCH blind decoding reduction can also be used to potentially reduce
the UE power consumption. Power saving gain of 1.4%-11% is shown when
the number of blind decoding candidates is reduced by half, with system
level impact in terms of higher DL control blocking probability (e.g.
assuming that 1/4 of the UEs are to be scheduled in a CORESET with such
reduced blind decoding limit, the average blocking probability would
increase by 50%). One source shows power saving gain of 29% with single
blind decoding candidate without showing the results of latency and
expected high blocking probability.

Observation:

In relation to above power saving schemes aforementioned, some Rel-15
C-DRX schemes are also evaluated compared to the agreed baseline. In one
source, Rel-15 MAC-CE based DRX command is evaluated, and the gain is
observed to be 42%\~56% with latency increase of 10%\~77% across three
traffic types. In another source, short DRX supported in Rel-15 is
evaluated and power saving of 30%\~280% is observed with latency
increase of 31%\~97%.

### 5.1.6 UE assistance Information

The UE assistance information for any UE power saving scheme is for UE
to provide the assistance information to the network in configuration
for UE adaptation to achieve power saving gain. UE assistance
information reported by UE for power saving is a UE recommendation and
the network shall make the final decision on whether and how to use that
information.

The UE assistance information for the power saving schemes for further
studies are as follows,

\- UE assistance information/feedback to assist network in
configurations for UE adaptation

\- UE preferred processing timeline parameters, e.g., K0, K1, K2 values

\- UE preferred BWP information/configuration

\- UE preferred antenna configuration, including MIMO layers, antenna
panel awareness information

\- UE assistance/feedback on the DRX configurations/parameters

\- UE preferred BWP provided to assist network in BWP switching

\- UE request on SCell/SCG activation/de-activation/configuration

\- UE preferred PDCCH monitoring parameters/search space
configuration/maximum number of blind decoding

Observation:

Some UE assistance information has been used by the power saving schemes
to adapt to the traffic resulting in power saving gain. Power saving
schemes including UE assistance information in the evaluation show power
saving gain of 9%-45% for UE adaptation to BWP switching, 4%-80% for UE
adaptation to DRX operation, and 5%-43% for SCell operation.

5.2 Power saving signal/channel/procedure for triggering adaptation to UE power consumption
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.2.1 Power saving signal/channel

The power saving signal/channel for UE adaptation includes the following
signals/channels for further study

\- Existing signal/channel based power saving signal/channel

\- PDCCH channel

\- TRS, CSI-RS type RS, SSS-like and DMRS

\- PDSCH channel carried MAC CE and/or RRC signaling

\- New power saving signal/channel -- sequence based

The aspects of the power saving signal/channel used for the UE
adaptation to the traffic used for further evaluation of power saving
signal design in addition to its triggering to the power saving gain.

\- Network resource overhead

\- Resource and/or periodicity of power saving signal/channel

\- Multiplexing capability - include total number of UEs supported

\- Usage of resource

\- Coexistence/multiplexing with existed signal/channel of Rel-15

\- UE-specific, group-specific, cell-specific power saving
signal/channel

\- Detection performance

\- Complexity

\- Power consumption of the power saving signal/channel

\- The behaviour when miss detection/false alarm happens

\- Multiplexing with other signals/channels

\- Number of information bits

The performance evaluation of the power saving signal/channel should
target the miss detection at X% and the false alarm rate at Y% with the
following aspects identified for the proposed power saving
signal/channel

\- The target of miss detection X% and the false alarm rate at Y% as
baseline for evaluation

\- For power saving signal/channel for wake-up purpose, X=0.1 and Y=1

\- For power saving signal/channel for go-to-sleep purpose, X=1 and
Y=0.1

\- Additional X and Y values are not precluded for the proposed power
saving signal/channel based on the use cases and scenarios

\- For any other purpose(s) of power saving signal/channel, companies to
report X & Y values

\- The target of miss detection would be different depending on the
behaviour of miss detection of power saving signal/channel.

\- If miss detection behaviour is defined as no subsequent PDCCH
reception, low miss detection rate is required in order to avoid
increased latency of missed chance of the scheduling.

\- If miss detection behaviour is defined as subsequent PDCCH reception,
low miss detection rate is not required.

\- The miss detection performance when multiple power saving
signal/channel are multiplexed on the same resource, when applicable

\- The performance of the power saving signal/channel should assume
realistic implementation limitations, e.g., by using realistic channel
estimation and time/frequency offset estimation, etc.

The UE miss detection performance results of UE power saving
signal/channels, such as PDCCH based GC-PDCCH based, CSI-RS, TRS, SSS,
and single-stage or multi-stage new sequences, are shown in Table 12.

Table 12: Miss detection performance of power saving signal/channel

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| *     | **    | **Req | **    | **Mu  | **T   | **    | **N   |
| *Comp | Power | uired | False | ltipl | rans. | Evalu | ote** |
| any** | s     | SNR   | alarm | exing | in    | ation |       |
|       | aving | at    | r     | capac | form. | metho |       |
|       | s     | miss  | ate** | ity** | B     | dolog |       |
|       | ignal | detec |       |       | its** | y/bas |       |
|       | /chan | tion= |       |       |       | eline |       |
|       | nel** | 0     |       |       |       | as    |       |
|       |       | .1%** |       |       |       | sumpt |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ion** |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| *     | PDCCH | About |       | 1     | 1, 2, | TDL-C |       |
| *vivo | based | \[3,  |       |       | 12    | Low   |       |
| *\[73 |       | 6.1\] |       |       |       | 100ns |       |
| \]*** |       | dB    |       |       |       | 10Hz; |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | AL    |       |       |       | 1TX   |       |
|       |       | =\[2, |       |       |       | /2RX; |       |
|       |       | 4\],  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | in    |       |       |       | SCS=3 |       |
|       |       | form. |       |       |       | 0KHz; |       |
|       |       | bit   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | s=12; |       |       |       | CS    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | I-RS: |       |
|       |       | About |       |       |       | 51    |       |
|       |       | \     |       |       |       | RBs,  |       |
|       |       | [2.3, |       |       |       | 1 OS  |       |
|       |       | 3.3\] |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       | SSS:  |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       | 127   |       |
|       |       | AL=2, |       |       |       | REs   |       |
|       |       | in    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | form. |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | bits  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | =\[1, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 2\]   |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | C     | About | 1%    | 1     | 1     |       |       |
|       | SI-RS | 2.5   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dens  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | ity=3 |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | SSS   | About | 1%    | 1     | 1-2   |       |       |
|       |       | \     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | [0.4, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 1.2\] |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | in    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | form. |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | bit   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | s=\[1 |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 2\]   |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **M   | PDCCH | \     | 1%    | 1     | 1     | TDL-C |       |
| TK\[7 | based | [5.7, |       |       |       | 3     |       |
| 4\]** |       | 2.2,  |       |       |       | km/hr |       |
|       |       | -2.4, |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       | -5.4, |       |       |       | delay |       |
|       |       | -9\]  |       |       |       | sp    |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       | read: |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       | 30    |       |
|       |       | AL    |       |       |       | ns,   |       |
|       |       | =\[1, |       |       |       | 100   |       |
|       |       | 2, 4, |       |       |       | ns or |       |
|       |       | 8,    |       |       |       | 300   |       |
|       |       | 16\]  |       |       |       | ns;   |       |
|       |       | and   |       |       |       | 2TX   |       |
|       |       | delay |       |       |       | /2RX; |       |
|       |       | s     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | pread |       |       |       | PDCCH |       |
|       |       | 30 ns |       |       |       | /GC-P |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | DCCH: |       |
|       |       | \     |       |       |       | 54/   |       |
|       |       | [6.5, |       |       |       | 108/2 |       |
|       |       | -0.3, |       |       |       | 16/43 |       |
|       |       | -3.6, |       |       |       | 2/864 |       |
|       |       | -7.5, |       |       |       | REs   |       |
|       |       | \<    |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       | -10\] |       |       |       | AL1   |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       | /2/4/ |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       | 8/16; |       |
|       |       | AL    |       |       |       | Seq   |       |
|       |       | =\[1, |       |       |       | uence |       |
|       |       | 2, 4, |       |       |       | dete  |       |
|       |       | 8,    |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       | 16\]  |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       | and   |       |       |       | P     |       |
|       |       | delay |       |       |       | DCCH, |       |
|       |       | s     |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       | pread |       |       |       | Polar |       |
|       |       | 100   |       |       |       | dec   |       |
|       |       | ns\   |       |       |       | oding |       |
|       |       | \     |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       | [8.4, |       |       |       | GC-   |       |
|       |       | -0.4, |       |       |       | PDCCH |       |
|       |       | -4.6, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | -8.7, |       |       |       | TRS:  |       |
|       |       | \<    |       |       |       | 312   |       |
|       |       | -10\] |       |       |       | REs   |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       | in 52 |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       | RBs   |       |
|       |       | AL    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | =\[1, |       |       |       | SSS:  |       |
|       |       | 2, 4, |       |       |       | 127   |       |
|       |       | 8,    |       |       |       | REs   |       |
|       |       | 16\]  |       |       |       | in 12 |       |
|       |       | and   |       |       |       | RBs   |       |
|       |       | delay |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | s     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | pread |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 300   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | ns    |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | TRS   | -3.3  | 1%    | 1     | 1     |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | delay |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | s     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | pread |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 30    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | ns\   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | -5.3  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | delay |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | s     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | pread |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 100   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | ns\   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | -6 dB |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | delay |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | s     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | pread |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 300   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | ns    |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | SSS   | M = 1 | 1%    | M     | 1 per |       |       |
|       | (UE   | UE:\  |       |       | UE    |       |       |
|       | spec  | 1.2   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | ific) | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | delay |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | s     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | pread |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 30    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | ns\   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 0.2   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | delay |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | s     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | pread |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 100   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | ns\   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | -0.3  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | delay |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | s     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | pread |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 300   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | ns\   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | M = 6 |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | UEs:\ |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 8.9   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | delay |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | s     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | pread |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 30    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | ns\   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 8.5   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | delay |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | s     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | pread |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 100   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | ns\   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 7.9   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | delay |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | s     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | pread |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 300   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | ns    |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | GC-   | M = 6 | 1%    | M     | 2 per |       |       |
|       | PDCCH | UEs;  |       |       | UE    |       |       |
|       | based | 2     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | bits  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | per   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | UE:   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | \     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | [4.5, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | -     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 5.7\] |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | AL    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | =\[2, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 16\]  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | delay |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | s     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | pread |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 30ns; |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | \     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | [3.6, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | -     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 7.7\] |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | AL    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | =\[2, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 16\]  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | delay |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | s     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | pread |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 1     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 00ns\ |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | \     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | [4.4, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | -     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 7.6\] |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | AL    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | =\[2, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 16\]  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | delay |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | s     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | pread |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 300ns |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **QC  | PDCCH | FR1:  |       | 1     | 12,   | Simul |       |
| \[8   | based |       |       |       | 30    | ation |       |
| 6\]** |       | About |       |       |       | param |       |
|       |       | \     |       |       |       | eters |       |
|       |       | [3.5, |       |       |       | spec  |       |
|       |       | -1.5, |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       | -5\]  |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       | Table |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       | A     |       |
|       |       | AL    |       |       |       | 1.5-1 |       |
|       |       | =\[2, |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       | 4,    |       |       |       | TR3   |       |
|       |       | 8\],  |       |       |       | 8.802 |       |
|       |       | 2RX,  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | TDL-A |       |       |       | For   |       |
|       |       | 30ns, |       |       |       | FR2:  |       |
|       |       | in    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | form. |       |       |       | CDL-C |       |
|       |       | bits  |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       | = 12; |       |       |       | 00ns; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | About |       |       |       | Ca    |       |
|       |       | \[6,  |       |       |       | rrier |       |
|       |       | -1,   |       |       |       | frequ |       |
|       |       | -4\]  |       |       |       | ency: |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       | 30    |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       | GHz;  |       |
|       |       | AL    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | =\[2, |       |       |       | 3 or  |       |
|       |       | 4,    |       |       |       | more  |       |
|       |       | 8\],  |       |       |       | beams |       |
|       |       | 2RX,  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | TDL-C |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 3     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 00ns, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | in    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | form. |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | bits  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | = 12; |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | About |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | \     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | [5.5, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 0,    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | -3\]  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | AL    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | =\[2, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 4,    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 8\],  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 2RX,  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | TDL-A |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 30ns, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | in    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | form. |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | bits  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | = 30; |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | About |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | \[9,  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 1.5,  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | -     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 2.5\] |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | AL    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | =\[2, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 4,    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 8\],  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 2RX,  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | TDL-C |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 3     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 00ns, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | in    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | form. |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | bits  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | = 30; |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       | FR2:  |       | 1     | 24    |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 3dB   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | AL=8, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 3     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | beams |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | s     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | wept, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | AL=4, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 7     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | beams |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | swept |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | and   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | up to |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 160ms |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | C-DRX |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | c     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | ycle. |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | CSI-R | FR2:  | 1%    | 1     |       |       |       |
|       | S-WUS | 3dB   |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **N   | PDCCH | About |       | 1     | 10    | TDL-C |       |
| okia, | based | \[    |       |       |       | 1     |       |
| NSB   |       | -2.5, |       |       |       | 00ns, |       |
| \[8   |       | -     |       |       |       | 3     |       |
| 7\]** |       | 5.4\] |       |       |       | 00ns; |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       | SCS=1 |       |
|       |       | AL    |       |       |       | 5KHz, |       |
|       |       | =\[8, |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       | 16\], |       |       |       | 0KHz; |       |
|       |       | TDL-C |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 1     |       |       |       | 2T    |       |
|       |       | 00ns, |       |       |       | X/2RX |       |
|       |       | SCS=1 |       |       |       | ;     |       |
|       |       | 5KHz; |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SS    |       |
|       |       | About |       |       |       | S:127 |       |
|       |       | \[-2, |       |       |       | REs   |       |
|       |       | -5\]  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | AL    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | =\[8, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 16\], |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | TDL-C |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 3     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 00ns, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | SCS=1 |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 5KHz; |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | About |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | \[-3, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | -5\]  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | AL    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | =\[8, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 16\], |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | TDL-C |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 1     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 00ns, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | SCS=3 |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 0KHz; |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | About |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | \[-3, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | -     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 4.5\] |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | AL    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | =\[8, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 16\], |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | TDL-C |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 3     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 00ns, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | SCS=3 |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 0KHz; |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | DMRS  | About |       | 1     |       |       |       |
|       |       | \[-1, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | -4\]  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | RBs=  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | \[48, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 96\], |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | TDL-C |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 1     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 00ns, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | SCS=1 |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 5KHz; |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | About |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | \[    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | -0.5, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | -4\]  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | RBs=  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | \[48, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 96\], |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | TDL-C |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 3     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 00ns, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | SCS=1 |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 5KHz; |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | About |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | \[    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | -0.5, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | -4\]  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | RBs=  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | \[48, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 96\], |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | TDL-C |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 1     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 00ns, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | SCS=3 |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 0KHz; |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | About |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | \[1,  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | -2\]  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | RBs=  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | \[48, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 96\], |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | TDL-C |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 3     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 00ns, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | SCS=3 |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 0KHz; |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | SSS   | \>3dB | 1%    | 1     |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| *     | PDCCH | About |       | 1     | 12    | AWGN; |       |
| *CATT | based | \[-   |       |       |       |       |       |
| *\[75 |       | 9.15, |       |       |       | 2TX   |       |
| \]*** |       | -     |       |       |       | /1RX; |       |
|       |       | 12.5, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | -15.  |       |       |       | SCS=1 |       |
|       |       | 2\]dB |       |       |       | 5KHz; |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | AL=\[ |       |       |       | CS    |       |
|       |       | 4，8, |       |       |       | I-RS: |       |
|       |       | 16\]  |       |       |       | 1     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 50REs |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | C     | -1    | 1%    | 1     |       |       |       |
|       | SI-RS | 3.3dB |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | M     | About | 1%    | M,    | Log   |       |       |
|       | ulti- | \[-   |       | e.g., | ~2~(N |       |       |
|       | stage | 15.1, |       | 16    | ^2^), |       |       |
|       | sequ  | -18,  |       |       | N=25  |       |       |
|       | ences | -20   |       |       | 6,512 |       |       |
|       |       | .97\] |       |       | ,1024 |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | \     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | [256, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 512,  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 1     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 024\] |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | REs   |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | S     | About | 1%    | M,    | Log~2 |       |       |
|       | ingle | \[-   |       | e.g., | ~(N), |       |       |
|       | stage | 15.1, |       | 16    | N=25  |       |       |
|       | seq   | -18,  |       |       | 6,512 |       |       |
|       | uence | -20   |       |       | ,1024 |       |       |
|       |       | .97\] |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | \     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | [256, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 512,  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 1     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 024\] |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | REs   |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **E   | PDCCH | About |       | 1     | 4, 30 | TDL-C |       |
| ricss | based | \[-3, |       |       |       | 3     |       |
| on\[8 |       | -     |       |       |       | 00ns; |       |
| 5\]** |       | 6.5\] |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       | SCS=3 |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       | 0KHz; |       |
|       |       | AL    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | =\[8, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 16\], |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | in    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | form. |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | bits  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | = 4;  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | About |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | \[-2, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | -5\]  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | AL    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | =\[8, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 16\], |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | in    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | form. |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | bits  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | = 30  |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | O     | 3 dB  |       |       |       | TDL-C |       |
|       | n-off |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | k     |       |       |       |       | SCS=1 |       |
|       | eying |       |       |       |       | 5KHz; |       |
|       | seq   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | uence |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **Int | PDCCH | About |       | 1     | 12    | TDL-C |       |
| el\[8 | based | \[    |       |       |       | 30ns; |       |
| 1\]** |       | -1.4, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | -3.8, |       |       |       | 2TX   |       |
|       |       | -     |       |       |       | /2RX; |       |
|       |       | 6.2\] |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       | TRS:  |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       | 288   |       |
|       |       | AL    |       |       |       | REs   |       |
|       |       | =\[4, |       |       |       | (48   |       |
|       |       | 8,    |       |       |       | RBs,  |       |
|       |       | 16\]  |       |       |       | 2 OS; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 96    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RBs;  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | OS),  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 576   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | REs   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (96   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RBs,  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | OS),  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RS    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | de    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nsity |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | = 3   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | TRS   | About | 1%    | 1     | 2, 6  |       |       |
|       |       | \[0,  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | -1,   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | -4\]  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | \[48  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | RBs,  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 2 OS; |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 96    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | RBs,  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 1 OS; |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 96    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | RBs,  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 2     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | OS\], |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | in    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | form. |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | bi    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | ts=2; |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | About |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | -3 dB |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 96    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | RBs,  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 2 OS, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | in    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | form. |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | b     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | its=6 |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **OP  | C     | -6 dB | 1%    | 1     |       | Simul |       |
| PO\[8 | SI-RS |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
| 3\]** |       |       |       |       |       | param |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eters |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | spec  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ified |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Table |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | A     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1.5-1 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TR3   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8.802 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2TX   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | /2RX; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CS    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | I-RS: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 24    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RBs   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RS    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | de    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | nsity |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | = 3   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **    | PDCCH | About |       | 1     | 4     | CDL-C |       |
| HW\[7 | based | \[3,  |       |       |       | 1     |       |
| 2\]** |       | 0,    |       |       |       | 00ns; |       |
|       |       | -2,   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | -4,   |       |       |       | 2TX   |       |
|       |       | -6\]  |       |       |       | /2RX; |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       | SCS = |       |
|       |       | AL    |       |       |       | 30KHz |       |
|       |       | =\[1, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 2, 4, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 8,    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 16\]  |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **    | DMRS  | About | 1%    | 1     |       | TDL-A |       |
| Samsu |       | \[6,  |       |       |       | 30ns; |       |
| ng\[7 |       | 0,    |       |       |       |       |       |
| 9\]** |       | -     |       |       |       | 1T    |       |
|       |       | 4.5\] |       |       |       | X/2RX |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       | C     |       |
|       |       | \[48  |       |       |       | SI-RS |       |
|       |       | RBs,  |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       | 1 OS; |       |       |       | nfig. |       |
|       |       | 24    |       |       |       | \[    |       |
|       |       | RBs,  |       |       |       | 63\]: |       |
|       |       | 2 OS; |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 48    |       |       |       | con   |       |
|       |       | RBs,  |       |       |       | fig2: |       |
|       |       | 2     |       |       |       | RS    |       |
|       |       | OS\]  |       |       |       | densi |       |
|       |       | to    |       |       |       | ty=2, |       |
|       |       | reach |       |       |       | 2 OS  |       |
|       |       | 1%    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | MDR   |       |       |       | con   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fig3: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RS    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | densi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ty=2, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4OS   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | C     | About | 1%    | 1     |       |       |       |
|       | SI-RS | \[0,  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | -3,   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | -6\]  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | \[48  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | RBs,  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | con   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | fig2; |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 24    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | RBs,  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | con   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | fig3; |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 48    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | RBs,  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | conf  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | ig3\] |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | to    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | reach |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 1%    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | MDR   |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | S     | About |       | 1     | 1\~4  |       |       |
|       | econd | \[1,  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | level | 0,    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | DMRS  | -2,   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | -3\]  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | in    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | form. |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | bits  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | =\[4, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 3, 2, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 1\]   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | to    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | reach |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 0.1%  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | ER    |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | S     | About |       | 1     | 1\~4  |       |       |
|       | econd | \[6,  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | level | 4.5,  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | C     | 2.5,  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | SI-RS | 0\]   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | in    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | form. |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | bits  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | =\[4, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 3, 2, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 1\],  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | co    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | nfig2 |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | to    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | reach |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 0.1%  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | ER    |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **Z   | PDCCH | About |       | 1     | 12    | TDL-C |       |
| TE\[6 | based | \[2,  |       |       |       | 3     |       |
| 1\]** |       | -3\]  |       |       |       | 00ns; |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       | 2T    |       |
|       |       | AL    |       |       |       | X/2RX |       |
|       |       | =\[2, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 4\]   |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | C     | About | 1%    | 1     |       |       |       |
|       | RI-RS | \[1,  |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | -     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 3.5\] |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | dB    |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | for   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | C     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | SI-RS |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | seq   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | uence |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | len   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | gth=\ |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | [108, |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 216\] |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **So  | O     | \[At  | 1%    |       |       | AWGN; |       |
| ny\[7 | n-off | BER = |       |       |       |       |       |
| 8\]** | k     | 0     |       |       |       | WUS   |       |
|       | eying | .15\] |       |       |       | le    |       |
|       | seq   |       |       |       |       | ngth: |       |
|       | uence |       |       |       |       | 63    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bits; |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SCS = |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 15KHz |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

Observations:

\- Power saving signal/channel used as the UE wakeup in triggering UE
adaptation to the DRX operation shows the power saving gains 4%-97% with
some overheads 0% -3.5%.

\- Power saving signal/channel triggering to assist the BWP switching
shows the power saving gain 25% - 55% with the overhead of 7%-21% from
the additional RS.

\- Power saving signal/channel triggering/enabling PDCCH monitoring
reduction achieves the power saving gain 50%-66% with 1.7% overhead.

\- The 0.1% miss detection performance of different power saving
signal/channel, such as PDCCH-based, TRS, CSI-RS, DMRS, SSS-like, new
sequence type, such as OOK, Gold sequence, had been shown with the
required SINR range -6 dB to 5.7 dB with false alarm probability at 1%.
Fewer resource used by power saving signal/channel or beam degradation
would require higher SINR operating point. The power saving
signal/channel also has the multiplexing capability ranged 1-16 UEs in
the evaluation depending on the power saving signal/channel type. The
power saving signal/channel may carry additional information bits in
addition to the triggering for UE adaptation. The power saving
signal/channel detection performance shows that it is adequate for
triggering the UE adaption to the power consumption.

### 5.2.2 Power saving procedure

The power saving signal/channel in triggering UE adaptation to DRX
operation for further study is that the power saving signal/channel can
be configured along the DRX configuration as the indication for UE to
wake up from the sleep state. RS resources can be considered to assist
UE in performing RRM/CSI measurement and channel time/frequency and/or
beam tracking.

The power saving signal/channel candidate in triggering UE to achieve
reducing PDCCH monitoring for further study is that the power saving
signal/channel can be used to trigger UE to skip the PDCCH monitoring
and/or to go to sleep for a period of time.

The power saving signal/channel in triggering UE frequency domain
processing adaptation for further study is the power saving
signal/channel can be used to trigger the indication of RS configuration
for channel tracking, CSI measurements, and beam management for the
additional assistance of dynamic switching of BWP or activation of SCell
in achieving the power saving gain. The power saving signal/channel can
be used for BWP switching, activation/deactivation of SCell or
adaptation of PDCCH monitoring and/or CORESET/search space of
PCell/SCell.

For further study, the power saving signal/channel in triggering
adaption to the UE processing, such as MIMO configuration/layers,
antenna configuration, UE processing time, and background processing can
be used as the indication for UE adaptation. The power saving
signal/channel in triggering UE adaptation to the processing is to allow
UE in reducing the power consumption by indication of the processing
time, such as PDCCH/PDSCH/PUSCH/PUCCH processing or the essential
background processing, such as periodic CSI and RRM measurements.

### 5.2.3 Additional RS 

Additional RS is the RS provided by gNB to assist UE in performing e.g.,
fine synchronization, channel/beam tracking, and/or CSI/RRM measurements
in addition to the existing RS in Rel-15. The additional RS was proposed
for study for power saving schemes for e.g,, UE adaptation to the DRX
operation, BWP switching, fast SCell activation, reducing PDCCH
monitoring, and/or RRM measurements. RS design is assumed to reuse
Rel-15 waveform. Power saving signal could be used to meet the purpose
of additional RS.

5.3 Power consumption reduction in RRM measurements 
---------------------------------------------------

The RRM power saving study should consider RRC IDLE, INACTIVE and
CONNECTED states. The deployment scenarios for further studies of RRM
power saving focus on the stationary (e.g., 0km/h), pedestrian (e.g.,
3km/h) and vehicular (e.g., 30km/h) scenarios when considering UE power
saving techniques for RRM measurements,

\- For IDLE/INACTIVE state, at least the following power components are
recommended to be considered for RRM measurement power saving evaluation

\- Loop convergence (AGC, TTL & FTL) / time-frequency tracking

\- How many SSB bursts are used for Loop convergence, with consideration
of being potentially confined in the same SSB burst or different SSB
bursts for serving cells and neighboring cells measurement/
time-frequency tracing

\- FFS: The power value for loop convergence /time-frequency tracking is
as the same as SSB processing.

\- Paging

\- SIB1 decoding (PDCCH+PDSCH)

\- Neighboring cell search (within SMTC), if any

\- SSB measurement (serving cell only / severing cell and neighboring
cells, if any)

\- Sleep

\- For CONNECTED state, at least the following power components are
recommended to be considered for RRM measurement power saving
evaluation,

\- Loop convergence (AGC, TTL & FTL) / time-frequency tracking

\- How many SSB bursts are used for Loop convergence, with consideration
of being potentially confined in the same SSB burst or different SSB
bursts for serving cells and neighboring cells measurement/
time-frequency tracing

\- Based on SSB and/or TRS(if configured)

\- PDCCH-only monitoring during active time

\- SSB measurement (serving cell only / severing cell and neighboring
cells, if any)

\- Neighboring cell search (within SMTC), if any

\- Sleep

The following adaption mechanism of RRM measurement activities for UE
power saving:

\- gNB controlled RRM measurement operation with UE assistance
information reported to gNB, e.g.,

\- mobility related information (e.g., mobility state, history of
mobility state, UE\'s visited cells and cells not reselected due to the
ping-pong effect, the number of handovers for certain period, etc.)

\- channel condition (e.g. change in serving RS/signal)

\- gNB controlled RRM measurement operation without UE assistance
information reported to gNB based on certain conditions, e.g.,

\- Doppler estimation for RRC CONNECTED states

\- cell type (e.g., small cell/macro cell)

\- gNB controlled threshold to support UE autonomous RRM measurement
adaptation *based on* e.g.,

\- signal measurements (e.g., RSRP)

\- UE mobility state (e.g., low/medium/high mobility)

\- UE location in the cell (e.g., cell-center/cell-edge)

\- S-measure enhancement (e.g. S-measure for SCell, CSI-RS)

\- Other mechanisms/approaches are not precluded

### 5.3.1 Adapting/Relaxing RRM measurement in time domain 

\- It is observed that the following

\- For certain conditions (e.g., low mobility deployment/UE
speed/favorable RSRP conditions), the number of RSRP measurement samples
for a given duration (e.g., measurement period / evaluation period) can
be relaxed with negligible impact on accuracy achieved by existing
Rel-15 measurement.

\- For certain conditions (e.g., favorable RSRP conditions, etc.),
reducing RRM measurement activities (e.g., measurement, reporting) for a
given time period is beneficial from UE power saving perspective for RRC
IDLE/INACTIVE/CONNECTED states.

\- For intra frequency and/or inter frequency measurement, the following
approaches are to be studied for UE power saving in time domain,
including impact on mobility performance

\- Increasing measurement period

\- Reducing number of samples (e.g., OFDM symbols / slots) within a
measurement period (e.g., SMTC window)

\- Confining RRM measurements within a measurement window and increasing
the periodicity of the measurement window for intra frequency and/or
inter frequency measurement

\- Other approaches are not precluded

\- Note: this does not necessarily mean that the techniques studied will
have spec impact

**- For UE autonomous** RRM measurement adaptation in time domain with
**gNB controlled threshold, the following thresholds and corresponding
adaptation schemes can be considered,**

\- A RSRP threshold for UE adapting RRM measurement period,

\- A RSRP threshold for UE adapting RRM number of samples within a
measurement period,

\- A RSRP threshold and a RSRP variation threshold within a period of
time, and based on that, UE can adapt the measurement or report period

\- A RSRP variation threshold within a period of time, and based on
that, UE can adapt the measurement or report period

\- A threshold for UE adapting RRM measurement period and the threshold
can be at least one of the followings,

\- The amount of time during which the UE stays with a specific cell or
beam (for RRM measurement)

\- UE\'s active TCI state for PDCCH does not change for specific time
period.

\- The number of handovers/reselections for certain period.

\- A threshold which includes UE mobility status, serving cell quality,
and based on that, UE can adapt the SMTC window, number of CSI-RS
resources sets per target cell, periodicity of CSI-RS resources.

Table 13: Evaluation of relaxed RRM measurement in time-domain

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>　</th>
<th>(0)</th>
<th>(1)</th>
<th>(2)</th>
<th>(3)</th>
<th>(4)</th>
<th>(5)</th>
<th>(6)</th>
<th>(7)</th>
<th>(8)</th>
<th>(9)</th>
<th>(10)</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>(0) Power saving schemes description<br />
(1) Average power consumption<br />
(2) Power reduction compared to baseline [%]</td>
<td>(3) RRC Idle/RRC Inactive (i) or RRC Connected (c)<br />
(4)Measurement period [ms]<br />
(5)number of samples(e.g., SSB bursts) in each MP<br />
(6) UE speed and channel model<br />
(7) system impact, e.g., overhead<br />
(8) Performance impact<br />
(9)Additional assumption, e.g., PO and SSB offset,</td>
<td>Note</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Source 1</p>
<p>Huawei<br />
[88]</p></td>
<td>If the RSRP of the serving cell is less than X, the MPs of serving cell and neighbour cells are according to RAN4's requirement; otherwise the MPs are N times of RAN4's requirement.</td>
<td><p>DRX cycle length = 0.32s</p>
<p>7.22(baseline)</p>
<p>5.21(N=4)</p>
<p><em>4.87(N=8)</em></p></td>
<td><p>27.9%</p>
<p>(N=4)</p>
<p>32.5%</p>
<p><em>(N=8)</em></p></td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>1</td>
<td><p>3km/h and 30km/h</p>
<p>NLOS</p></td>
<td>-</td>
<td><p>Little impact on RSRP accuracy, which can be seen in Fig. 1 in [88].</p>
<p>RSRP difference increases, which can be seen in Fig. 2 in [88].</p></td>
<td>The periodicity of SSB is 20ms, and the gap length between PO and SSB are randomly distributed</td>
<td><p>FR1</p>
<p>8 neighboring cells for intra-frequency measurement; 8 neighboring cells in each layer for inter-frequency measurement and totally 3 layers.</p>
<p>Cell search is performed every three measurements.</p>
<p>Group paging rate is 10%, and paging rate is 0%.</p>
<p>1 SSB burst set with 2 SSB is used for loop convergence, with periodicity of max (160ms, DRX cycle).</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>DRX cycle length = 0.64s</p>
<p>4.11(baseline)</p>
<p>3.11(N=4)</p>
<p><em>2.94(N=8)</em></p></td>
<td><p>24.75%</p>
<p>(N=4)</p>
<p>28.6</p>
<p><em>(N=8)</em></p></td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>1</td>
<td></td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>DRX cycle length = 1.28s</p>
<p>2.56(baseline)</p>
<p>2.05(N=4)</p>
<p><em>1.97(N=8)</em></p></td>
<td><p>19.7%</p>
<p>(N=4)</p>
<p>23.0%</p>
<p><em>(N=8)</em></p></td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>1</td>
<td></td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>DRX cycle length = 2.56s</p>
<p>1.78(baseline)</p>
<p>1.53(N=4)</p>
<p>1.48(N=8)</p></td>
<td><p>14.2%</p>
<p>(N=4)</p>
<p>16.5%</p>
<p><em>(N=8)</em></p></td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>1</td>
<td></td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>DRX cycle length = 0.32s</p>
<p>3.35(baseline)</p>
<p>2.21(N=4)</p>
<p>2.02(N=8)</p></td>
<td><p>34.0%</p>
<p>(N=4)</p>
<p>39.7</p>
<p><em>(N=8)</em></p></td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>1</td>
<td><p>3km/h and 30km/h</p>
<p>LOS</p></td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>DRX cycle length = 0.64s</p>
<p>2.17(baseline)</p>
<p>1.60(N=4)</p>
<p>1.51(N=8)</p></td>
<td><p>26.2%</p>
<p>(N=4)</p>
<p>30.6%</p>
<p><em>(N=8)</em></p></td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>1</td>
<td></td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>DRX cycle length = 1.28s</p>
<p>1.59(baseline)</p>
<p>1.30(N=4)</p>
<p>1.25(N=8)</p></td>
<td><p>17.9%</p>
<p>(N=4)</p>
<p>20.9%</p>
<p><em>(N=8)</em></p></td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>1</td>
<td></td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>DRX cycle length = 2.56s</p>
<p>1.29(baseline)</p>
<p>1.15(N=4)</p>
<p>1.13(N=8)</p></td>
<td><p>11.0%</p>
<p>(N=4)</p>
<p>12.8%</p>
<p><em>(N=8)</em></p></td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>1</td>
<td></td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Source 2</p>
<p>Vivo</p>
<p>[89]</p></td>
<td><p>Only SSB is used for RRM</p>
<p>(2 samples per DRX cycle)</p></td>
<td>4.17</td>
<td>Baseline1</td>
<td>Idle</td>
<td>320</td>
<td>2</td>
<td><p>TDL-C</p>
<p>3km/h</p>
<p>30km/h</p></td>
<td>Low</td>
<td>RSRP accuracy impact are captured in Figure 2-3 in [89]</td>
<td><p>The power saving gain is average gain of [0-10] ms SSB/CSI-RS and PO offset.</p>
<p>Additional assumptions:</p>
<p>1. The duration of SSB/CSI-RS measurement occasion per paging cycle is 2ms.</p>
<p>2. Periodicity of SSB is 20ms and SSB is transmitted in the 1st slot of each 20ms period.</p>
<p>3. Periodicity of CSI-RS is 10ms and CSI-RS is transmitted in the 6th slot of each radio frame.</p>
<p>4. Paging cycle (DRX cycle) is 320ms, and the paging is monitored in one slot in first 2 radio frames of each paging cycle by different UEs with equal probability (random paging occasion).</p>
<p>5. Assuming no cell reselection. Thus no SIB1 energy consumption is included.</p>
<p>6. Assuming no additional resource for AGC tuning.</p>
<p>The slot duration is based on 30 kHz SCS for FR1 and 120kHz for FR2.</p></td>
<td>FR1</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>The number of measurement samples is reduced to 1 per paging cycle in idle state. Measurement is still based on SSB</td>
<td>2.84</td>
<td>31.9%</td>
<td>Idle</td>
<td>320</td>
<td>1</td>
<td></td>
<td>Low</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>The measurement periodicity is extended to 2 paging cycle, 2 measurements sample per paging cycle.</td>
<td>3.02</td>
<td>27.6%</td>
<td>Idle</td>
<td>640</td>
<td>2</td>
<td></td>
<td>Low</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td><p>Only SSB is used for RRM</p>
<p>(2 samples per DRX cycle)</p></td>
<td>2.97</td>
<td>Baseline2</td>
<td>Idle</td>
<td>320</td>
<td>2</td>
<td></td>
<td>Low</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>The number of measurement samples is reduced to 1 per paging cycle in idle state. Measurement is still based on SSB</td>
<td>2.173</td>
<td>26.8%</td>
<td>Idle</td>
<td>320</td>
<td>1</td>
<td></td>
<td>Low</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>The measurement periodicity is extended to 2 paging cycle, 2 measurements sample per paging cycle.</td>
<td>2.11</td>
<td>29%</td>
<td>Idle</td>
<td>640</td>
<td>2</td>
<td></td>
<td>Low</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td><p>Reduce RRM measurement in RRC connected state.</p>
<p>with short DRX InactivityTimer</p></td>
<td>40.45</td>
<td>Baseline1</td>
<td>Con</td>
<td>200</td>
<td>5</td>
<td></td>
<td>Low</td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Long DRXCycle = 160ms, onDurationTimer = 8ms, data_rate=300Mbps</p>
<p>FTP Model 3, packet size =0.5MByte</p>
<p>Periodic activities is not modeled, e.g., AGC</p></td>
<td><p>FR1,</p>
<p>200 ms measurement period is considered as the baseline.</p>
<p>DRX InactivityTimer = 40ms</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>35.80</td>
<td>11.5%</td>
<td>Con</td>
<td>400</td>
<td>5</td>
<td></td>
<td>Low</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>31.38</td>
<td>22.4%</td>
<td>Con</td>
<td>800</td>
<td>5</td>
<td></td>
<td>Low</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td><p>Reduce RRM measurement in RRC connected state.</p>
<p>With long DRX InactivityTimer</p></td>
<td>73.65</td>
<td>Baseline2</td>
<td>Con</td>
<td>200</td>
<td>5</td>
<td></td>
<td>Low</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>FR1,</p>
<p>200 ms measurement period is considered as the baseline.</p>
<p>DRX InactivityTimer = 100ms</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>69.98</td>
<td>5.2%</td>
<td>Con</td>
<td>400</td>
<td>5</td>
<td></td>
<td>Low</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>69.15</td>
<td>6.2%</td>
<td>Con</td>
<td>800</td>
<td>5</td>
<td></td>
<td>Low</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Source 3</p>
<p>MediaTek</p>
<p>[90]</p></td>
<td>UE adapts the measurement period to be 2 times default measurement period when PCell RSRP is 2dB better than the best neighbor cell and 4 times default measurement period when PCell RSRP is 4dB better than the best neighbour cell</td>
<td>28.28 (baseline is 35.95 according to Table II)</td>
<td>21.34% (55.64% RRM measurement is saved)</td>
<td>Con</td>
<td>200/400/800</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>30km/h, 3D UMa with 200m ISD</td>
<td>Near negligible, only simple comparison is needed</td>
<td><p>handover fail rate</p>
<p>2.08% 2.81%</p></td>
<td><p>CDRX-cycle=40ms</p>
<p>DRX-on=4ms</p>
<p>SMTC window=2ms</p>
<p>SMTC period=20ms,</p>
<p>Light sleep time for Case 2=8ms</p>
<p>FR1</p></td>
<td>Periodic activities, e.g. time/frequency, channel or beam tracking, and loop convergence, are performed every 160ms during the SMTC window. Periodic activities will align with RRM measurement if possible.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>UE adapts the measurement period to be 2 times default measurement period when PCell RSRP is 2dB better than the best neighbor cell and 4 times default measurement period when PCell RSRP is 4dB better than the best neighbour cell. UE keeps default measurement period when the variation between two serving cell RSRP measurements is larger than 0.3dB.</td>
<td>29.45 (baseline is 35.95 according to Table II)</td>
<td>18.08% (47.42% RRM measurement is saved)</td>
<td>Con</td>
<td>200/400/800</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>30km/h, 3D UMa with 200m ISD</td>
<td>Near negligible, only simple comparison is needed</td>
<td><p>handover fail rate</p>
<p>2.08% 2.43%</p></td>
<td><p>CDRX-cycle=40ms</p>
<p>DRX-on=4ms</p>
<p>SMTC window=2ms</p>
<p>SMTC period=20ms,</p>
<p>Light sleep time for Case 2=8ms</p>
<p>FR1</p></td>
<td>Periodic activities, e.g. time/frequency, channel or beam tracking, and loop convergence, are performed every 160ms during the SMTC window. Periodic activities will align with RRM measurement if possible.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>UE adapts the measurement period to be 2 times default measurement period when PCell RSRP is 2dB better than the best neighbor cell and 4 times default measurement period when PCell RSRP is 4dB better than the best neighbour cell</td>
<td>29.49 (baseline is 35.95 according to Table II)</td>
<td>17.97% (46.76% RRM measurement is saved)</td>
<td>Con</td>
<td>200/400/800</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>120km/h, 3D UMa with 500m ISD</td>
<td>Near negligible, only simple comparison is needed</td>
<td><p>handover fail rate</p>
<p>9.03% 10.07%</p></td>
<td><p>CDRX-cycle=40ms</p>
<p>DRX-on=4ms</p>
<p>SMTC window=2ms</p>
<p>SMTC period=20ms,</p>
<p>Light sleep time for Case 2=8ms</p>
<p>FR1</p></td>
<td>Periodic activities, e.g. time/frequency, channel or beam tracking, and loop convergence, are performed every 160ms during the SMTC window. Periodic activities will align with RRM measurement if possible.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>UE adapts the measurement period to be 2 times default measurement period when PCell RSRP is 2dB better than the best neighbor cell and 4 times default measurement period when PCell RSRP is 4dB better than the best neighbour cell. UE keeps default measurement period when the variation between two serving cell RSRP measurements is larger than 1dB.</td>
<td>30.78 (baseline is 35.95 according to Table II)</td>
<td>14.38% (37.38% RRM measurement is saved)</td>
<td>Con</td>
<td>200/400/800</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>120km/h, 3D UMa with 500m ISD</td>
<td>Near negligible, only simple comparison is needed</td>
<td><p>handover fail rate</p>
<p>9.03% 9.59%</p></td>
<td><p>CDRX-cycle=40ms</p>
<p>DRX-on=4ms</p>
<p>SMTC window=2ms</p>
<p>SMTC period=20ms,</p>
<p>Light sleep time for Case 2=8ms</p>
<p>FR1</p></td>
<td>Periodic activities, e.g. time/frequency, channel or beam tracking, and loop convergence, are performed every 160ms during the SMTC window. Periodic activities will align with RRM measurement if possible.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Source 4</p>
<p>CATT</p>
<p>[91]</p></td>
<td>UE performs 5 measurement in one measurement period.</td>
<td>30.24</td>
<td>baseline</td>
<td>Con</td>
<td>200</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>3km/h</td>
<td>-</td>
<td><p>-</p>
<p>Fulfilling the RSRP accuracy requirement in RAN4</p>
<p>RSRP accuracy impact are captured in [91]</p></td>
<td><p>DRX-cycle=40ms, DRX-on=4ms,</p>
<p>SMTC period = 20ms</p></td>
<td>Relaxing samples in MP</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>UE reduces the number of measurement samples in one measurement period from 5 to 3.</td>
<td>27</td>
<td>10.71%</td>
<td>Con</td>
<td>200</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>3km/h</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td><p>DRX-cycle=40ms, DRX-on=4ms,</p>
<p>SMTC period = 20ms</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>UE performs 5 measurement in one measurement period.</td>
<td>10.08</td>
<td>baseline</td>
<td>Con</td>
<td>800</td>
<td>5</td>
<td></td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td><p>DRX-cycle=160ms, DRX-on=8ms,</p>
<p>SMTC period = 20ms</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>UE reduces the number of measurement samples in one measurement period from 5 to 3.</td>
<td>9.55</td>
<td>5.26%</td>
<td>Con</td>
<td>800</td>
<td>3</td>
<td></td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td><p>DRX-cycle=160ms, DRX-on=8ms,</p>
<p>SMTC period = 20ms</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>UE performs 5 measurement in one measurement period.</td>
<td>5.88</td>
<td>baseline</td>
<td>Con</td>
<td>1600</td>
<td>5</td>
<td></td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td><p>DRX-cycle=320ms, DRX-on=10ms,</p>
<p>SMTC period = 20ms</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>UE reduces the number of measurement samples in one measurement period from 5 to 3.</td>
<td>5.35</td>
<td>2.57%</td>
<td>Con</td>
<td>1600</td>
<td>3</td>
<td></td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td><p>DRX-cycle=320ms, DRX-on=10ms,</p>
<p>SMTC period = 20ms</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>The measurement period is 800ms.</td>
<td>11.5</td>
<td>baseline</td>
<td>RRC Connected</td>
<td>800</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td>DRX-cycle=160ms, DRX-on=8ms, SMTC period = 40ms</td>
<td>Relaxing measurement period</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>The measurement period is extended from 800ms to 1600ms</td>
<td>10.13</td>
<td>11.91%</td>
<td>RRC Connected</td>
<td>1600</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td>DRX-cycle=160ms, DRX-on=8ms, SMTC period = 40ms</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>The measurement period is extended from 800ms to 3200ms</td>
<td>9.45</td>
<td>17.83%</td>
<td>RRC Connected</td>
<td>3200</td>
<td>5</td>
<td></td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td>DRX-cycle=160ms, DRX-on=8ms, SMTC period = 40ms</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Source 5</p>
<p>Sony[93]</p></td>
<td>Reduced number of samples per measurement period</td>
<td>32.28</td>
<td>24%</td>
<td>Conn</td>
<td>80</td>
<td>2/slot</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>None</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td>Baseline power is 42.4 units</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>Reduced number of samples per measurement period</td>
<td>27.21</td>
<td>36%</td>
<td>Conn</td>
<td>160</td>
<td>2/slot</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>none</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Source 6</p>
<p>DoCoMo</p>
<p>[94]</p></td>
<td>Normal case</td>
<td>31</td>
<td>baseline</td>
<td>Conn</td>
<td>320</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>3km/h</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td><p>C-DRX cycle = 40ms,</p>
<p>C-DRX on duration = 4ms</p>
<p>3km/h pedestrian,</p>
<p>PDCCH-only monitoring during active time</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>Relaxed RRM in time domain</td>
<td>26.63</td>
<td>14.1%</td>
<td>Conn</td>
<td>640</td>
<td>5</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>25.75</td>
<td>16.9%</td>
<td>Conn</td>
<td>800</td>
<td>5</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>24.44</td>
<td>21.2%</td>
<td>Conn</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>5</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>24</td>
<td>22.6%</td>
<td>Conn</td>
<td>1600</td>
<td>5</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>23.34</td>
<td>24.7%</td>
<td>Conn</td>
<td>2560</td>
<td>5</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Source 7</p>
<p>Qualcomm</p>
<p>[96]</p></td>
<td>L = 1, R = 1/2</td>
<td>2.06</td>
<td>baseline</td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>stationary</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td><p>The considered adaptation skips the measurement in one or more I-DRX cycles which is defined by variable R (e.g., R = 1/2 means RRM measurement is skipped once every 2 DRXs).</p>
<p>L denotes the number of SSBs in a SSB set</p>
<p>Notes:</p>
<p>(3) I-DRX/paging cycle</p>
<p>(4) The number of SSB burst sets are used for RRM and AGC/T-F tracking loops</p>
<p>(5) UE speed (km/h) or stationary</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>2.04</td>
<td>0.71%</td>
<td></td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>2</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>L = 4, R = 1/2</td>
<td>2.11</td>
<td>baseline</td>
<td></td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>2</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>2.07</td>
<td>1.85%</td>
<td></td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>2</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>L = 8, R = 1/2</td>
<td>2.19</td>
<td>baseline</td>
<td></td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>2</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>2.11</td>
<td>3.57%</td>
<td></td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>2</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>L = 1, R = 1/4</td>
<td>2.06</td>
<td>baseline</td>
<td></td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>2</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>2.04</td>
<td>1.07%</td>
<td></td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>2</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>L = 4, R = 1/4</td>
<td>2.11</td>
<td>baseline</td>
<td></td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>2</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>2.05</td>
<td>2.78%</td>
<td></td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>2</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>L = 8, R = 1/4</td>
<td>2.19</td>
<td>baseline</td>
<td></td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>2</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>2.07</td>
<td>5.36%</td>
<td></td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>2</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>L = 1, R = 1/2</td>
<td>2.48</td>
<td>baseline</td>
<td></td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>3</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>2.47</td>
<td>0.59%</td>
<td></td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>3</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>L = 4, R = 1/2</td>
<td>2.53</td>
<td>baseline</td>
<td></td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>3</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>2.49</td>
<td>1.54%</td>
<td></td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>3</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>L = 8, R = 1/2</td>
<td>2.61</td>
<td>baseline</td>
<td></td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>3</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>2.53</td>
<td>3.00%</td>
<td></td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>3</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>L = 1, R = 1/4</td>
<td>2.48</td>
<td>baseline</td>
<td></td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>3</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>2.46</td>
<td>0.89%</td>
<td></td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>3</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>L = 4, R = 1/4</td>
<td>2.53</td>
<td>baseline</td>
<td></td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>3</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>2.47</td>
<td>2.32%</td>
<td></td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>3</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>L = 8, R = 1/4</td>
<td>2.61</td>
<td>baseline</td>
<td></td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>3</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>2.49</td>
<td>4.49%</td>
<td></td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>3</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Source 8 ZTE</p>
<p><span class="underline">[92]</span>[61]</p></td>
<td>The measurement period is 800ms.</td>
<td>20.28</td>
<td>baseline</td>
<td>Connect</td>
<td>800</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td><p>DRX:160-40-10</p>
<p>(cycle-inactivity timer-ON duration)</p>
<p>offset：U(0, measurement period)</p></td>
<td>Cell number to be measurement is 8.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>The measurement period is extended from 800ms to 1600ms</td>
<td>18.78</td>
<td>7.4%</td>
<td>Connect</td>
<td>1600</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>The measurement period is extended from 800ms to 3200ms</td>
<td>18.03</td>
<td>11.1%</td>
<td>Connect</td>
<td>3200</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>The measurement period is 200ms.</td>
<td>31.15</td>
<td>baseline</td>
<td>Connect</td>
<td>200</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td><p>DRX:40-10-4</p>
<p>(cycle-inactivity timer-ON duration)</p>
<p>offset：U(0, measurement period)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>The measurement period is extended from 200ms to 400ms</td>
<td>25.61</td>
<td>17.8%</td>
<td>Connect</td>
<td>400</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>The measurement period is extended from 200ms to 800ms</td>
<td>22.85</td>
<td>26.6%</td>
<td>Connect</td>
<td>800</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>The offset between SMTC window and DRX ON duration is subject to uniform distribution U(0, measurement period).</td>
<td>6.53</td>
<td>baseline</td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>320</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td><p>DRX cycle is 320ms</p>
<p>, PO：10%</p></td>
<td>Cell number to be measurement is 8.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>The offset between SMTC window and DRX ON duration is 0</td>
<td>5.65</td>
<td>13.5%</td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>320</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td><p>DRX cycle is 320ms</p>
<p>, PO：10%</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>The offset between SMTC window and DRX ON duration is subject to uniform distribution U(0, measurement period).</td>
<td>2.42</td>
<td>baseline</td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td><p>DRX cycle is 1280ms</p>
<p>, PO：10%</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>The offset between SMTC window and DRX ON duration is 0</td>
<td>2.19</td>
<td>9.5%</td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td><p>DRX cycle is 1280ms</p>
<p>, PO：10%</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>The offset between SMTC window and DRX ON duration is subject to uniform distribution U(0, measurement period).</td>
<td>20.28</td>
<td>baseline</td>
<td>Connect</td>
<td>800</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td><p>DRX:160-40-10</p>
<p>(cycle-inactivity timer-ON duration)</p>
<p>Baseline offset：U(0, measurement period)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>The offset between SMTC window and DRX ON duration is 0</td>
<td>18.83</td>
<td>7.1%</td>
<td>Connect</td>
<td>800</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td><p>DRX:160-40-10</p>
<p>(cycle-inactivity timer-ON duration)</p>
<p>Baseline offset：U(0, measurement period)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Source 9</p>
<p>Nokia</p>
<p>[97]</p></td>
<td><p>System level evaluation of the impact of increasing measurement period.</p>
<p>No power consumption analysis.</p></td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>c</td>
<td><p>(a) 200ms</p>
<p>(b) 400ms</p>
<p>(c) 800ms</p>
<p>(d) 1600ms</p>
<p>(e) 3200ms</p></td>
<td>5 samples</td>
<td>3 km/h</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td><p>Handover failure rate (%)</p>
<p>(a) 0</p>
<p>(b) 0</p>
<p>(c) 0,26</p>
<p>(d) 0,14</p>
<p>(e) 0,49</p></td>
<td>System level assumptions given in[97]</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>30 km/h</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td><p>Handover failure rate (%)</p>
<p>(a) 0</p>
<p>(b) 0,08</p>
<p>(c) 0,41</p>
<p>(d) 1,57</p>
<p>(e) 11,33</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>60 km/h</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td><p>Handover failure rate (%)</p>
<p>(a) 0</p>
<p>(b) 0,33</p>
<p>(c) 1,00</p>
<p>(d) 3,68</p>
<p>(e) 25,89</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>120 km/h</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td><p>Handover failure rate (%)</p>
<p>(a) 0,17</p>
<p>(b) 0,86</p>
<p>(c) 3,14</p>
<p>(d) 15,59</p>
<p>(e) 56,74</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

![D:\\Outputs\\2019\\\[power saving\]\\RAN1 \#96
contribution\\AWGN\_3km\_RSRS\_accuracy.jpg](media/image3.jpeg){width="1.553079615048119in"
height="1.1641655730533684in"}![D:\\Outputs\\2019\\\[power
saving\]\\RAN1 \#96
contribution\\AWGN\_30km\_RSRS\_accuracy.jpg](media/image4.jpeg){width="1.5443842957130358in"
height="1.1576443569553805in"}![D:\\Outputs\\2019\\\[power
saving\]\\RAN1 \#96
contribution\\CDLC\_3km\_RSRS\_accuracy.jpg](media/image5.jpeg){width="1.5791666666666666in"
height="1.1837171916010498in"}![D:\\Outputs\\2019\\\[power
saving\]\\RAN1 \#96
contribution\\CDLC\_30km\_RSRS\_accuracy.jpg](media/image6.jpeg){width="1.5009055118110237in"
height="1.1250524934383201in"}

  -------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------
  \(1\) AWGN RSRP accuracy at 3 km/hr \[88\]   \(2\) AWGN RSRP accuracy at 30 km/hr \[88\]   \(3\) CDL-C RSRP accuracy at 3 km/hr \[88\]   \(4\) CDL-C RSRP accuracy at 30 km/hr \[88\]
  -------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------

![](media/image7.png){width="1.3458005249343832in"
height="1.113378171478565in"}![](media/image8.png){width="1.3389752843394576in"
height="1.1126968503937007in"}![](media/image9.png){width="1.4695658355205599in"
height="1.1064960629921259in"}![](media/image10.png){width="1.4720089676290464in"
height="1.107244094488189in"}

  ------------------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------
  \(1\) L1 RSRP accuracy at 3 km/hr \[89\]   \(2\) L3 filtered RSRP accuracy at 3 km/hr\[89\]   \(1\) RSRP accuracy at 3 km/hr \[91\]   \(2\) RSRP accuracy at 30 km/hr\[91\]
  ------------------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------

For adapting/relaxing RRM measurement in time domain, the followings are
observed from simulation results,

\- For RRC CONNECTED state,

\- Among the results, 11.1% - 26.6% power saving gain is shown for
extending measurement period 4 times, and 7.4% - 17.8% power saving gain
is shown for extending measurement period 2 times, comparing with the
baseline assumption.

\- For RRC IDLE/INACTIVE state,

\- By increasing measurement period, the UE power saving gain at least
depends on the number of I-DRX/paging cycles to be skipped for
measurement and the number of SSB burst sets to be used for measurement
and periodic activities. When measurement is performed once every 4
paging cycles, the gain is 17.9%-19.7% (one SSB burst set for
measurement and periodic activities), 0.89%-5.36% (two or three SSB
burst sets for measurement and periodic activities).

\- While at the same time, for stationary or low mobility case, the
mobility performance impact of increasing measurement period (e.g.,
handover failure rate, RSRP difference between two adjacent samples) is
shown as follow,

\- The handover failure rate for RRC CONNECTED state is

\- with 4 times relaxing the measurement period, changed as follows:

\- 0% -\> 0.26% for 3km/h, 0% -\>0.41% and 2.08% -\>2.81% for 30km/h, 0%
-\>1% for 60km/h, 0.17% -\>3.14% and 9.03% -\> 10.07% for 120km/h

\- with 16 times relaxing the measurement period, changed as follows:

\- 0% -\> 0.5% for 3km/h, 0% -\> 11.33% for 30km/h，0% -\> 25.89% for
60km/h, 0.17% -\> 56.74% for 120km/h

\- the (5%-tile, 95%-tile) of the RSRP measurement error is within the
range of (-4dB, 4dB) .

\- It is shown that relaxing the number of samples within measurement
period provides 2.57% - 36% power saving gain for RRC CONNECTED. For
stationary or low mobility case, 1 source results show the (5%-tile,
95%-tile) of the RSRP measurement error is within the range of (-2dB,
3dB) for both 3km/h and 30km/h .

UE mobility/handover model and mobility performance metric follows
TR36.839, where the handover is initiated based on an A3 RSRP
measurement event (A3 event is also the major event for handover
triggering from practical deployment) with detailed simulation model in
\[103\].

For RRM measurement relaxation for all UEs in a cell, it is observed
that:

\- For 3km/h UE speed, relaxing the measurement period by 4 times, i.e.
from 200ms to 800ms, impact on handover failure rate is negligible
(i.e.,\<=0.043% handover failure rate).

\- For 30km/h or higher UE speed, relaxing the measurement period by 4
times, i.e. from 200ms to 800ms, impact on handover failure rate is
non-negligible.

\- For UE speed not higher than 30km/h, the impact of L1 measurement
samples on handover failure rate is negligible (i.e., \<=0.120% handover
failure rate).

Table 13-1: Handover failure rate with different measurement periods (5
samples during one measurement period) for RRM measurement relaxation
for all UEs in a cell

                            UE speed 3km/h   UE speed 30km/h   UE speed 60km/h                                                
  ------------------------- ---------------- ----------------- ----------------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- ---------
  L3 Period(ms)             200              400               800               200      400      800      200      400      800
  Timer-to-trigger: 0ms     0.000%           0.043%            0.043%            0.013%   0.135%   3.019%   0.052%   2.117%   15.840%
  Timer-to-trigger: 320ms   0.000%           0.043%            0.043%            0.069%   0.334%   5.135%   0.375%   4.823%   21.461%
  Timer-to-trigger: 640ms   0.043%           0.043%            0.043%            0.114%   0.755%   7.777%   1.519%   9.190%   27.117%

Table 13-2: Handover failure rate with different measurement L1 samples
and same L3 period (measurement period is 200ms) for RRM measurement
relaxation for all UEs in a cell

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th></th>
<th>UE speed 3km/h</th>
<th>UE speed 30km/h</th>
<th>UE speed 60km/h</th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Samples in 200ms of L3 Period</td>
<td><p>5</p>
<p>(L1: 40ms)</p></td>
<td><p>2</p>
<p>(L1: 100ms)</p></td>
<td><p>1</p>
<p>(L1: 200ms)</p></td>
<td><p>5</p>
<p>(L1: 40ms)</p></td>
<td><p>2</p>
<p>(L1: 100ms)</p></td>
<td><p>1</p>
<p>(L1: 200ms)</p></td>
<td><p>5</p>
<p>(L1: 40ms)</p></td>
<td><p>2</p>
<p>(L1: 100ms)</p></td>
<td><p>1</p>
<p>(L1: 200ms)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Timer-to-trigger: 0ms</td>
<td>0.000%</td>
<td>0.000%</td>
<td>0.000%</td>
<td>0.013%</td>
<td>0.019%</td>
<td>0.019%</td>
<td>0.052%</td>
<td>0.057%</td>
<td>0.036%</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Timer-to-trigger: 320ms</td>
<td>0.000%</td>
<td>0.000%</td>
<td>0.000%</td>
<td>0.069%</td>
<td>0.069%</td>
<td>0.050%</td>
<td>0.375%</td>
<td>0.318%</td>
<td>0.268%</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Timer-to-trigger: 640ms</td>
<td>0.000%</td>
<td>0.000%</td>
<td>0.000%</td>
<td>0.114%</td>
<td>0.120%</td>
<td>0.120%</td>
<td>1.519%</td>
<td>1.413%</td>
<td>1.069%</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

For RRM measurement relaxation for partial UEs in a cell based on
configurable relaxation conditions, e.g. RSRP threshold, it is observed
that:

\- For stationary or low speed UE, i.e. no more than 3km/h, relaxing the
measurement period 4 times, i.e. from 200ms to 800ms, has no impact on
mobility performance.

\- For 30km/h UE speed, RRM measurement relaxation for partial UEs in a
cell based on RSRP can achieve much lower handover failure rate (i.e.,
\<=0.140% for 400ms measurement period, and \<=0.654% for 800ms
measurement period) than RRM measurement relaxation for all UEs in a
cell, when the RSRP threshold is set to be 50% point of CDF curve for
all UEs\' serving cell RSRP.

\- If the RSRP threshold is set to be an even higher value, e.g., 80%
point of CDF curve for all UEs\' serving cell RSRP, or set to be the
threshold of S-measure, the handover failure rate is expected to be more
negligible and even near to 0.

At least RRM measurement relaxation for partial UEs in a cell based on
configurable relaxation conditions, e.g. RSRP threshold, needs to be
further considered.

Table 13-3: Handover failure rate comparison between RRM measurement
relaxation for all UEs in a cell and RRM measurement relaxation for
partial UEs in a cell based on RSRP

                                                           UE speed 30km/h                                                           
  -------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- ------------------- ----------- --------- ----------- -----------
                                                           L3 period = 400ms   L3 period = 800ms                                     
                                                           TTT=0ms             TTT=320ms           TTT=640ms   TTT=0ms   TTT=320ms   TTT=640ms
  RRM relaxation for all UEs in a cell                     0.135%              0.334%              0.755%      3.019%    5.135%      7.777%
  RRM relaxation for partial UEs in a cell based on RSRP   0.019%              0.082%              0.140%      0.206%    0.387%      0.654%

For stationary or low speed UE, i.e. no more than 3km/h, relaxing the
measurement period 4 times, i.e. from 200ms to 800ms for all UEs in a
cell, should be supported. The RRM measurement relaxation criteria based
on the measurment of serving cell quality can be further considered,
e.g. when the measurement results is higher than a threshold, the RRM
measurement relaxation can be appled.

### 5.3.2 Adapting/Relaxing intra-frequency measurements 

It is observed that the following mechanisms can be beneficial in
achieving the UE power saving,

\- Reducing the number of cells for intra-frequency measurement can be
beneficial for UE power saving,

\- Assuming that UE can limit the processing for measurement within a
constrained time period and/or with reduced complexity.

\- Assuming number of neighbouring cells to be measured is reduced.

\- For UE power saving perspective, reducing the need in neighbour cell
intra-frequency measurement can be beneficial.

Table 14: Evaluation of adapting/relaxing intra-frequency measurements

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>　</th>
<th>(0)</th>
<th>(1)</th>
<th>(2)</th>
<th>(3)</th>
<th>(4)</th>
<th>(5)</th>
<th>(6)</th>
<th>(7)</th>
<th>(8)</th>
<th>(9)</th>
<th>(10)</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>(0) Power saving schemes description<br />
(1) Average power consumption<br />
(2) Power reduction compared to baseline [%]</td>
<td>(3) RRC Idle/RRC Inactive (i) or RRC Connected (c)<br />
(4)Measurement period [ms]<br />
(5)number of samples(e.g., SSB bursts) in each MP<br />
(6) UE speed and channel model<br />
(7) system impact, e.g., overhead<br />
(8) Performance impact<br />
(9)Additional assumption, e.g., PO and SSB offset,</td>
<td>Note</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Source 1</p>
<p>Huawei<br />
[88]</p></td>
<td><p>Intra-cell measurement: With full cell search, the measured cell number can be reduced from 8 to 4. The power can be reduced from M to N. M is taken as baseline. The power in the bracket is power unit per millisecond.</p>
<p>FR2</p></td>
<td><p>M=821860(1.64635)</p>
<p>N(a)=763360(1.52917)</p>
<p>N(b)= 604630(1.2112)</p></td>
<td><p>(a)7.12%</p>
<p>(b)26.43%</p></td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Additional signalling overhead from network</td>
<td>possible mobility impact</td>
<td><p>FR1 30kHz</p>
<p>Sync</p></td>
<td><p>DRX cycle length = 1.28s; Total considered time is 390 DRX cycle, i.e., 499.2s;</p>
<p>the gap length between PO and SSB is assumed as 0;</p>
<p>Cell search is performed every three measurements.</p>
<p>Group paging rate is 10%, and paging rate is 0%.</p>
<p>1 SSB burst set with 2SSB is used for loop convergence, with periodicity of max (160ms, DRX cycle).</p>
<p>(a) measurement duration = SMTC duration(5ms)</p>
<p>(b) measurement duration = 2ms randomly located in SMTC window</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>M= 860860(1.72448)</p>
<p>N(a)= 802360(1.60729)</p>
<p>N(b)= 620230(1.24245)</p></td>
<td><p>(a)6.80%</p>
<p>(b)27.95%</p></td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td>possible mobility impact</td>
<td><p>FR1 30kHz</p>
<p>Async</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>M=822055(1.64674)</p>
<p>N(a)= 763555(1.52956)</p>
<p>N(b)= 604825(1.21159)</p></td>
<td><p>(a)7.12%</p>
<p>(b)26.43%</p></td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td>possible mobility impact</td>
<td><p>FR1 60kHz</p>
<p>Sync</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>M= 861055(1.72487)</p>
<p>N(a)= 802555(1.60768)</p>
<p>N(b)= 620425(1.24284)</p></td>
<td><p>(a)6.79%</p>
<p>(b)27.95%</p></td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td>possible mobility impact</td>
<td><p>FR1 60kHz</p>
<p>Async</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>M=997555(1.99831)</p>
<p>N(a)= 939055(1.88112)</p>
<p>N(b)= 675025(1.35221)</p></td>
<td><p>(a)5.86%</p>
<p>(b)32.33%</p></td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td>possible mobility impact</td>
<td><p>FR2 60kHz</p>
<p>Sync</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>M= 1114555(2.23268)</p>
<p>N(a)= 1056055(2.11569)</p>
<p>N(b)= 721825(1.44596)</p></td>
<td><p>(a)5.25%</p>
<p>(b)35.24%</p></td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td>possible mobility impact</td>
<td><p>FR2 60kHz</p>
<p>Async</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>M=997652.5(1.9985)</p>
<p>N(a)= 939152.5(1.88132)</p>
<p>N(b)= 675122.5(1.35241)</p></td>
<td><p>(a)5.86%</p>
<p>(b)32.33%</p></td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td>possible mobility impact</td>
<td><p>FR2 120kHz</p>
<p>Sync</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>M= 1114653(2.23288)</p>
<p>N(a)= 1056153(2.11569)</p>
<p>N(b)= 721922.5(1.44616)</p></td>
<td><p>(a)5.25%</p>
<p>(b)35.23%</p></td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td>possible mobility impact</td>
<td><p>FR2 120kHz</p>
<p>Async</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td><p>Intra-cell measurement: With full cell search, the measured cell number can be reduced from 16 to 4. The power can be reduced from M to N. M is taken as baseline. The power in the bracket is power unit per millisecond.</p>
<p>FR1</p></td>
<td><p>M=938860(1.88073)</p>
<p>N=763360(1.52917)</p></td>
<td>18.69%</td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td>possible mobility impact</td>
<td><p>FR1 30kHz</p>
<p>Sync</p></td>
<td><p>DRX cycle length = 1.28s; Total considered time is 390 DRX cycle, i.e., 499.2s; measurement duration = SMTC duration(5ms)</p>
<p>the gap length between PO and SSB is assumed as 0;</p>
<p>Cell search is performed every three measurements.</p>
<p>Group paging rate is 10%, and paging rate is 0%.</p>
<p>1 SSB burst set with 2SSB is used for loop convergence, with periodicity of max (160ms, DRX cycle).</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>M= 977860(1.95885)</p>
<p>N= 802360(1.60729)</p></td>
<td>17.95%</td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td>possible mobility impact</td>
<td><p>FR1 30kHz</p>
<p>Async</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>M=939055(1.88112)</p>
<p>N= 763555(1.52956)</p></td>
<td>18.69%</td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td>possible mobility impact</td>
<td><p>FR1 60kHz</p>
<p>Sync</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>M= 978055(1.95924)</p>
<p>N= 802555(1.60768)</p></td>
<td>17.94%</td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td>possible mobility impact</td>
<td><p>FR1 60kHz</p>
<p>Async</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>M=1114555(2.23568)</p>
<p>N= 939055(1.88112)</p></td>
<td>15.75%</td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td>possible mobility impact</td>
<td><p>FR2 60kHz</p>
<p>Sync</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>M= 1231555(2.46706)</p>
<p>N= 1056055(2.11569)</p></td>
<td>14.25%</td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td>possible mobility impact</td>
<td><p>FR2 60kHz</p>
<p>Async</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>M=1114652.5(2.23288)</p>
<p>N= 939152.5 (1.88132)</p></td>
<td>15.75%</td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td>possible mobility impact</td>
<td><p>FR2 120kHz</p>
<p>Sync</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>M= 1231652.5(2.46725)</p>
<p>N= 1056153(2.11569)</p></td>
<td>14.25%</td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td>possible mobility impact</td>
<td><p>FR2 120kHz</p>
<p>Async</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Source 2</p>
<p>Vivo</p>
<p>[89]</p></td>
<td>Energy for full measurement (8 cells)</td>
<td>4.597</td>
<td>Baseline1</td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>320</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>--</td>
<td>No</td>
<td>Low</td>
<td>The measurement duration in SMTC is 2ms</td>
<td><p>FR1,</p>
<p>Cell search is assumed to be performed in 1/3 of the SMTC measurement occasions.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td><p>Reduce neighbour cell measurement(</p>
<p>SCS is 30 kHz, Synchronous case, 4 cells)</p></td>
<td>4.229</td>
<td>8%</td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>320</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>--</td>
<td>No</td>
<td>Low</td>
<td>The measurement duration in SMTC is 2ms</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td><p>Reduce neighbour cell measurement(</p>
<p>SCS is 30 kHz, Asynchronous case, 4 cells)</p></td>
<td>4.474</td>
<td>37.54%</td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>320</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>--</td>
<td>No</td>
<td>Low</td>
<td>The measurement duration in SMTC duration is 2ms and 4ms for 4 cells and 8 cells.</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>Energy for full measurement (8 cells)</td>
<td>7.77</td>
<td>Baseline2</td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>320</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>--</td>
<td>No</td>
<td>Low</td>
<td>The measurement duration in SMTC is 2ms</td>
<td><p>FR2,</p>
<p>Cell search is assumed to be performed in 1/3 of the SMTC measurement occasions.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td><p>Reduce neighbour cell measurement(</p>
<p>SCS is 30 kHz, Synchronous case, 4 cells)</p></td>
<td>7.02</td>
<td>9.6%</td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>320</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>--</td>
<td>No</td>
<td>Low</td>
<td>The measurement duration in SMTC is 4ms</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>Additional threshold is considered to reduce the number of intra-frequency measurements based on S-measures enhancement. Details in section 4.2 [89]</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Baseline3</td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>320</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>--</td>
<td>No</td>
<td>Low</td>
<td></td>
<td>System level analysis. All the UEs in the cell is considered and there are 70% UEs which can actually reduce the number of cells from more than 8 cells to 4 cells, in dense urban single layer.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>-</td>
<td>18%</td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>320</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>--</td>
<td>No</td>
<td>Low</td>
<td><span class="math inline"><em>S</em><sub>intraSearchP</sub><sup>(2)</sup></span> is around -110 ~ -102dBm, when <span class="underline">S<sub>IntraSearchP</sub></span> =-90.5dB.</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Source 3 ZTE</p>
<p><span class="underline">[92]</span>[61]</p></td>
<td>The number to be measured is 8, and UE performs intra-frequency measurement for each DRX cycle.</td>
<td>6.53</td>
<td>baseline</td>
<td>Idle</td>
<td>320</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td><p>DRX cycle is 320ms</p>
<p>PO：10%</p>
<p>Offset：U(0, measurement period)</p></td>
<td>The SMTC duration is 2ms</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>The measured cell number is 8, but UE carries out intra frequency measurement every four DRX cycles, and only serving cell measurement is performed for the rest of the cycle.</td>
<td>6.22</td>
<td>4.7%</td>
<td>Idle</td>
<td>320</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td><p>DRX cycle is 320ms</p>
<p>PO：10%</p>
<p>Offset：U(0, measurement period)</p></td>
<td>The SMTC duration is 2ms</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>There are only serving cell to be measured.</td>
<td>5.66</td>
<td>13.3%</td>
<td>Idle</td>
<td>320</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td><p>DRX cycle is 320ms</p>
<p>PO：10%</p>
<p>Offset：U(0, measurement period)</p></td>
<td>The SMTC duration is 0.5ms</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>The number to be measured is 8</td>
<td>20.28</td>
<td>baseline</td>
<td>Connect</td>
<td>800</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td><p>DRX:160-40-10</p>
<p>(cycle-inactivity timer-ON duration)</p>
<p>offset：U(0, measurement period)</p></td>
<td>The SMTC duration is 2ms</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>Reduce the measurement cell from 8 to 4</td>
<td>19.91</td>
<td>1.8%</td>
<td>Connect</td>
<td>800</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td><p>DRX:160-40-10</p>
<p>(cycle-inactivity timer-ON duration)</p>
<p>offset：U(0, measurement period)</p></td>
<td>The SMTC duration is 2ms</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>Reduce the measurement cell from 8 to 1</td>
<td>18.59</td>
<td>8.3%</td>
<td>Connect</td>
<td>800</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td><p>DRX:160-40-10</p>
<p>(cycle-inactivity timer-ON duration)</p>
<p>offset：U(0, measurement period)</p></td>
<td>The SMTC duration is 0.5ms</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>The number to be measured is 8</td>
<td>31.15</td>
<td>baseline</td>
<td>Connect</td>
<td>200</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td><p>DRX:40-10-4</p>
<p>(cycle-inactivity timer-ON duration)</p>
<p>offset：U(0, measurement period)</p></td>
<td>The SMTC duration is 2ms</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>Reduce the measurement cell from 8 to 4</td>
<td>29.68</td>
<td>4.7%</td>
<td>Connect</td>
<td>200</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td><p>DRX:40-10-4</p>
<p>(cycle-inactivity timer-ON duration)</p>
<p>offset：U(0, measurement period)</p></td>
<td>The SMTC duration is 2ms</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>Reduce the measurement cell from 8 to 1</td>
<td>24.51</td>
<td>21.3%</td>
<td>Connect</td>
<td>200</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td><p>DRX:40-10-4</p>
<p>(cycle-inactivity timer-ON duration)</p>
<p>offset：U(0, measurement period)</p></td>
<td>The SMTC duration is 0.5ms</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Observation:

\- For adapting/relaxing RRM measurement for intra-frequency measurement
by reducing the number of measured cells, the followings are observed
from simulation results,

\- By assuming number of neighbouring cells to be measured is reduced,
it is shown that about 4.7% - 7.1% power saving gain can be observed if
reducing the number of measured cells for IDLE state. 1 source shows
that about 1.8% - 21.3% power saving gain can be observed if reducing
the number of measured cells for CONNECTED state.

\- In additional to that, by also assuming that UE can limit the
processing for measurement within a constrained time period and/or with
reduced complexity, 26.43% - 37.5% power saving gain is shown.

\- The corresponding performance impact was not reported and summarized

### 5.3.3 Power saving schemes for RRM measurements with additional resource 

While it is observed under certain conditions and deployment scenarios,
additional resource for RRM measurement can be beneficial for UE power
saving, including at least the following aspects:

\- Minimizing/reducing the timing gap between measurement (e.g., SSB)
and DRX ON duration (e.g., paging monitoring occasion/reception, data
reception, etc.)

\- Additional resource around the measurement occasion, e.g., for AGC
assistance

\- Reducing measurement activities by providing additional resource may
provide sufficient measurement/T-F accuracy.

**The followings can be considered as the usage of additional resource
for RRM measurement,**

\- CSI-RS, including TRS

\- SSS only

\- SSB

\- PSS, SSS and wake-up signaling/paging

\- E.g., including transmitted in SFN (single frequency network) manner

\- DMRS for RMSI PDCCH/PDSCH for standalone

\- Additional new RS/signal (e.g, configuring additional RS next to SSB)
in addition to existing RS/signal in Rel-15

\- Note: Existing structure/waveform of Rel-15 signals/channels is
recommended to be studied for additional resource

\- Note: companies report the purpose of additional resource for RRM
measurement, e.g., measurement, cell search and etc.

**RRC state(s) with the additional resource used for the RRM
measurements,**

\- RRC IDLE

\- RRC INACTIVE

\- RRC CONNECTED

Table 15: Evaluation of additional resources for RRM power saving

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th></th>
<th>(0)</th>
<th>(1)</th>
<th>(2)</th>
<th>(3)</th>
<th>(4)</th>
<th>(5)</th>
<th>(6)</th>
<th>(7)</th>
<th>(8)</th>
<th>(9)</th>
<th>(10)</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td><p>(0) Power saving schemes description</p>
<p>(1) Average power consumption</p>
<p>(2) Power reduction compared to baseline [%]</p></td>
<td>(3) RRC Idle/RRC Inactive (i) or RRC Connected (c)<br />
(4)Measurement period [ms]<br />
(5)number of samples(e.g., SSB bursts) in each MP<br />
(6) UE speed and channel model<br />
(7) system impact, e.g., overhead<br />
(8) Performance impact<br />
(9)Additional assumption, e.g., PO and SSB offset,</td>
<td>Note</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Source 1</p>
<p>vivo</p>
<p>[89]</p></td>
<td><p>Only SSB is used for RRM</p>
<p>(2 samples per DRX cycle)</p></td>
<td>4.17</td>
<td>Baseline1</td>
<td>RRC Idle</td>
<td>320</td>
<td>2</td>
<td><p>TDL-C</p>
<p>3km/h</p>
<p>30km/h</p></td>
<td>Low</td>
<td></td>
<td>The power saving gain is average gain of [0-10] ms SSB/CSI-RS and PO offset.</td>
<td>FR1</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>The number of measurement samples is reduced to 1 per paging cycle in idle state. Measurement is still based on CSI-RS</td>
<td>2.84</td>
<td>31.9%</td>
<td>RRC Idle</td>
<td>320</td>
<td>1</td>
<td><p>TDL-C</p>
<p>3km/h</p>
<p>30km/h</p></td>
<td>Low</td>
<td><p>No impact for RSRP accuracy,</p>
<p>RSRP accuracy analysis in [89]</p></td>
<td>The power saving gain is average gain of [0-10] ms SSB/CSI-RS and PO offset.</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>The number of measurement samples is reduced to 1 per paging cycle in idle state. Measurement is still based on either SSB or CSI-RS depending on which is closer to PO in time.</td>
<td>2.72</td>
<td>34.8%</td>
<td>RRC Idle</td>
<td>320</td>
<td>1</td>
<td><p>TDL-C</p>
<p>3km/h</p>
<p>30km/h</p></td>
<td>Low</td>
<td></td>
<td><p>The power saving gain is average gain of [0-10] ms SSB/CSI-RS and PO offset.</p>
<p>The periodicity of CSI-RS is assumed to be 10ms.</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td><p>Only SSB is used for RRM</p>
<p>(2 samples per DRX cycle)</p></td>
<td>2.97</td>
<td>Baseline2</td>
<td>RRC Idle</td>
<td>320</td>
<td>2</td>
<td><p>TDL-C</p>
<p>3km/h</p>
<p>30km/h</p></td>
<td>Low</td>
<td></td>
<td>The power saving gain is average gain of [0-10] ms SSB/CSI-RS and PO offset.</td>
<td>FR2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>The number of measurement samples is reduced to 1 per paging cycle in idle state. Measurement is still based on CSI-RS</td>
<td>2.173</td>
<td>26.8%</td>
<td>RRC Idle</td>
<td>320</td>
<td>1</td>
<td><p>TDL-C</p>
<p>3km/h</p>
<p>30km/h</p></td>
<td>Low</td>
<td><p>No impact for RSRP accuracy,</p>
<p>RSRP accuracy analysis in [89]</p></td>
<td>The power saving gain is average gain of [0-10] ms SSB/CSI-RS and PO offset.</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>The number of measurement samples is reduced to 1 per paging cycle in idle state. Measurement is still based on either SSB or CSI-RS depending on which is closer to PO in time.</td>
<td>2.07</td>
<td>30.3%</td>
<td>RRC Idle</td>
<td>320</td>
<td>1</td>
<td><p>TDL-C</p>
<p>3km/h</p>
<p>30km/h</p></td>
<td>Low</td>
<td></td>
<td><p>The power saving gain is average gain of [0-10] ms SSB/CSI-RS and PO offset.</p>
<p>The periodicity of CSI-RS is assumed to be 10ms.</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Source 2</p>
<p>MediaTek</p>
<p>[90]</p></td>
<td>Using SSS-only signal as additional RS before SSB for paging indication and RRM assistance.</td>
<td>1.634 (baseline is 2.089, values are calculated in Appendix in [90]</td>
<td>21.78%</td>
<td>Idle</td>
<td>One IDRX cycle (1280ms)</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>General</td>
<td>One symbol of SSS for SMTC window</td>
<td></td>
<td><p>IDRX-cycle=1280ms</p>
<p>DRX on duration = 4ms</p>
<p>SMTC window = 2ms</p>
<p>SMTC period =20ms</p>
<p>FR1</p></td>
<td><p>Periodic activities, e.g. time/frequency, channel or beam tracking, and loop convergence, are performed every IDRX cycle during the SMTC window. Periodic activities will align with RRM measurement if possible.</p>
<p>The SSS-only signal can be multiplexed in a CDMed way to accommodate more paging indications for different paging groups.</p>
<p>For 20/40 ms SMTC (SSB) periodicity, the additional SSS-only signal of 160ms periodicity introduces 1.6%/3.3% overhead in terms of SSB unit.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Source 3</p>
<p>CATT</p>
<p>[91]</p></td>
<td>Normal RRM measurement according to SMTC configuration</td>
<td>12.2</td>
<td>baseline</td>
<td>connected</td>
<td>800</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>DRX-cycle=160ms, DRX-on=8ms, SMTC= 80ms</td>
<td>on-demand RS for RRM measurement is that UE could perform multiple RRM measurements (e.g. 5 measurements in a consecutive period) when UE is triggered to wake up at a given DRX-ON period. Then UE can do L1 filtering for multiple RRM measurements at one DRX-ON period</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>On-demand RS assistant RRM measurement during DRX-on duration</td>
<td>9.2</td>
<td>24.6%</td>
<td>connected</td>
<td>800</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>DRX-cycle=160ms, DRX-on=8ms, SMTC= 80ms</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>Normal RRM measurement according to SMTC configuration</td>
<td>66.34</td>
<td>0%</td>
<td>connected</td>
<td>800</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>DRX-cycle=160ms, DRX-on=8ms, Inactivity timer =100ms</td>
<td>on-demand RS is introduced to assist UE measurement during the data transmission, UE would go to sleep after data reception, which can reduce a part of UE power consumption.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>On-demand RS assistant RRM measurement during data transmission</td>
<td>12.42</td>
<td>81.28%</td>
<td>connected</td>
<td>800</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>DRX-cycle=160ms, DRX-on=8ms, Inactivity timer =100ms</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Source 4</p>
<p>Qualcomm</p>
<p>[96]</p></td>
<td>L=1</td>
<td>2.06</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>1.28</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>stationary</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td><p>Notes:</p>
<p>- (3) I-DRX/paging cycle</p>
<p>- (4) The number of SSB burst sets are used for RRM and AGC/T-F tracking loops</p>
<p>- (5) UE speed (km/h) or stationary</p>
<p>L denotes the number of SSBs in a SSB set</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>1.67</td>
<td>18.86%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>L=4</td>
<td>2.11</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>1.28</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>stationary</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>1.67</td>
<td>20.74%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>L=8</td>
<td>2.19</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>1.28</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>stationary</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>1.67</td>
<td>23.58%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>L=1</td>
<td>2.17</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>1.28</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>3</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>1.68</td>
<td>22.36%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>L=4</td>
<td>2.21</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>1.28</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>3</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>1.68</td>
<td>24.08%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>L=8</td>
<td>2.29</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>1.28</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>3</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>1.68</td>
<td>26.66%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>L=1</td>
<td>2.17</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>1.28</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>30</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>1.68</td>
<td>22.67%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>L=4</td>
<td>2.22</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>1.28</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>30</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>1.68</td>
<td>24.37%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>L=8</td>
<td>2.30</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>1.28</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>30</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>1.68</td>
<td>26.94%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>L=1</td>
<td>2.48</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>1.28</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>stationary</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>1.67</td>
<td>32.66%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>L=4</td>
<td>2.53</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>1.28</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>stationary</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>1.67</td>
<td>33.96%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>L=8</td>
<td>2.61</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>1.28</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>stationary</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>1.67</td>
<td>35.94%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>L=1</td>
<td>2.59</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>1.28</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>3</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>1.68</td>
<td>35.02%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>L=4</td>
<td>2.64</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>1.28</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>3</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>1.68</td>
<td>36.22%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>L=8</td>
<td>2.71</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>1.28</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>3</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>1.68</td>
<td>38.06%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>L=1</td>
<td>2.60</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>1.28</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>30</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>1.68</td>
<td>35.24%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>L=4</td>
<td>2.65</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>1.28</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>30</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>1.68</td>
<td>36.43%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>L=8</td>
<td>2.72</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>1.28</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>30</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>1.68</td>
<td>38.26%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>L=1</td>
<td>5.24</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>0.32</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>stationary</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>3.68</td>
<td>29.67%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>L=4</td>
<td>5.43</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>0.32</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>stationary</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>3.68</td>
<td>32.20%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>L=8</td>
<td>5.75</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>0.32</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>stationary</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>3.68</td>
<td>35.89%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>L=1</td>
<td>5.66</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>0.32</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>3</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>3.73</td>
<td>34.21%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>L=4</td>
<td>5.86</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>0.32</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>3</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>3.73</td>
<td>36.40%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>L=8</td>
<td>6.17</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>0.32</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>3</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>3.73</td>
<td>39.62%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>L=1</td>
<td>5.70</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>0.32</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>30</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>3.73</td>
<td>34.61%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>L=4</td>
<td>5.89</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>0.32</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>30</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>3.73</td>
<td>36.78%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>L=8</td>
<td>6.21</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>0.32</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>30</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>3.73</td>
<td>39.96%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>L=1</td>
<td>6.93</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>0.32</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>stationary</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>3.68</td>
<td>46.81%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>L=4</td>
<td>7.12</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>0.32</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>stationary</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>3.68</td>
<td>48.27%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>L=8</td>
<td>7.43</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>0.32</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>stationary</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>3.68</td>
<td>50.44%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>L=1</td>
<td>7.35</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>0.32</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>3</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>3.73</td>
<td>49.31%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>L=4</td>
<td>7.55</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>0.32</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>3</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>3.73</td>
<td>50.63%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>L=8</td>
<td>7.86</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>0.32</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>3</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>3.73</td>
<td>52.59%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>L=1</td>
<td>7.39</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>0.32</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>30</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>3.73</td>
<td>49.55%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>L=4</td>
<td>7.58</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>0.32</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>30</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>3.73</td>
<td>50.85%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>L=8</td>
<td>7.89</td>
<td></td>
<td>Idle/Inactive</td>
<td>0.32</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>30</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>FR1</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>3.73</td>
<td>52.80%</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>CSI-RS for mobility, w/o repetition (baseline)</td>
<td>36.9</td>
<td>baseline</td>
<td>Connected</td>
<td>40ms</td>
<td>16slots</td>
<td>Stationary</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>the power model for CSI-RS for mobility and the scaling rule with respect to the number of CSI-RS symbols in a slot are described in [96]</td>
<td>Repetition of CSI-RS for mobility in FR2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>CSI-RS for mobility, with 2 repetition</td>
<td>32.5</td>
<td>11.8%</td>
<td>Connected</td>
<td>80ms</td>
<td>16slots</td>
<td>Stationary</td>
<td></td>
<td>Refined Rx beam</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>CSI-RS for mobility, with 4 repetition</td>
<td>29.2</td>
<td>20.7%</td>
<td>Connected</td>
<td>160ms</td>
<td>16slots</td>
<td>Stationary</td>
<td></td>
<td>Refined Rx beam</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Source 5</p>
<p>Ericsson</p>
<p>[95]</p></td>
<td>UE performs AGC on previous SSB, measures on next SSB</td>
<td>2826/1280 = 2.20</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Idle</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>One additional SSB sweep for AGC is provided 4 ms ahead of the measured SSB sweep</td>
<td>2522/1280 =1.97</td>
<td>11.8</td>
<td>Idle</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>UE performs AGC on previous SSB, then monitors ON-duration</td>
<td>3032/1280 =2.36</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Idle</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>An additional on-demand RS for AGC purposes is provided 5 ms before the start of ON-duration</td>
<td>2918/1280 =2.28</td>
<td>3.8</td>
<td>Idle</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>UE performs AGC on previous SSB, measures on next SSB, followed by monitoring ON-duration</td>
<td>3746/1280 =2.93</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Idle</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>One additional SSB sweep for AGC is provided 4 ms ahead of the measured SSB sweep, measures on next SSB, followed by monitoring ON-duration</td>
<td>3442/1280 =2.69</td>
<td>8.1</td>
<td>Idle</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Observation:

\- For RRC IDLE/INACTIVE, by using additional resources for RRM
measurement, the UE power saving is 19%\~38%. Analysis on network
impact, higher-layer/PHY-layer signaling overhead and network energy
consumption is not provided. Two sources report 1.6% of SSB overhead for
160ms additional reference signals periodicity assuming that SSB burst
set periodicity is 20ms. If static UE specific signals (e.g., CSI-RS for
connected mode UEs) can be reused as additional resource for RRM for RRC
IDLE/INACTIVE, reference signal overhead may not increase.

\- For RRC CONNECTED, one source showed that, by having CSI-RS
repetition for CSI-RS based RRM in FR2, the UE power saving is
11.8%\~20.7% assuming that CSI-RS overhead of baseline is identical to
CSI-RS overhead with enhancement. The analysis on handover failure rate
is not provided under the assumed overhead.

### 5.3.4 Adapting/Relaxing inter-frequency measurements 

Table 16: Evaluation of adapting/relaxing inter-frequency measurements

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>　</th>
<th>(0)</th>
<th>(1)</th>
<th>(2)</th>
<th>(3)</th>
<th>(4)</th>
<th>(5)</th>
<th>(6)</th>
<th>(7)</th>
<th>(8)</th>
<th>(9)</th>
<th>(10)</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>(0) Power saving schemes description<br />
(1) Average power consumption<br />
(2) Power reduction compared to baseline [%]</td>
<td>(3) RRC Idle/RRC Inactive (i) or RRC Connected (c)<br />
(4) Measurement period [ms]<br />
(5) number of samples(e.g., SSB bursts) in each MP<br />
(6) UE speed and channel model<br />
(7) system impact, e.g., overhead<br />
(8) Performance impact<br />
(9) Additional assumption, e.g., PO and SSB offset,</td>
<td>Note</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Source 1</p>
<p>Huawei<br />
[88]</p></td>
<td><p>Inter-frequency measurement: With full cell search in each layer, the measured frequency number can be reduced from 6 to 3. The power can be reduced from M to N. M is taken as baseline. The power in the bracket is power unit per millisecond.</p>
<p>(a) totally indicated layer number= 6 and every layer has 8 neighbor cells.</p>
<p>(b) totally indicated layer number= 6 and only 3 layers out of 6 layer have neighbour cells with 8 for each.</p>
<p>Note: the assumptions of the number of layers may not be aligned with the baseline assumption</p></td>
<td><p>M(a)= 5.64948</p>
<p>M(b)= 4.25573</p>
<p>N= 3.65651</p></td>
<td><p>(a) 35.28%</p>
<p>(b) 14.08%</p></td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Additional signalling overhead from network</td>
<td>possible mobility impact</td>
<td><p>FR1 30kHz</p>
<p>Sync</p></td>
<td><p>DRX cycle length = 1.28s; Total considered time is 390 DRX cycle, i.e., 499.2s;</p>
<p>measured duration in each layer equals to SMTC duration = 5ms; switching time for FR1 equals 0.5ms, for FR2 equals 0.25ms; the gap length between PO and SSB is assumed as 0;</p>
<p>8 neighbor cells for intra-frequency measurement; 8 neighbor cells in each layer for inter-frequency measurement.</p>
<p>Cell search is performed every three measurements.</p>
<p>Group paging rate is 10%, and paging rate is 0%.</p>
<p>1 SSB burst set with 2SSB is used for loop convergence, with periodicity of max (160ms, DRX cycle);</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>M(a)= 6.19635</p>
<p>M(b)= 4.56823</p>
<p>N= (3.96901)</p></td>
<td><p>(a) 35.95%</p>
<p>(b) 13.12%</p></td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td>possible mobility impact</td>
<td><p>FR1 30kHz</p>
<p>Async</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>M(a)= 5.64987</p>
<p>M(b)= 4.25612</p>
<p>N= 3.6569</p></td>
<td><p>(a) 35.28%</p>
<p>(b) 14.08%</p></td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td>possible mobility impact</td>
<td><p>FR1 60kHz</p>
<p>Sync</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>M(a)= 6.19635</p>
<p>M(b)= 4.56862</p>
<p>N= 3.9694</p></td>
<td><p>(a) 35.94%</p>
<p>(b) 13.12%</p></td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td>possible mobility impact</td>
<td><p>FR1 60kHz</p>
<p>Async</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>M(a)= 8.05065</p>
<p>M(b)= 6.08815</p>
<p>N= 5.02878</p></td>
<td><p>(a) 37.54%</p>
<p>(b) 17.40%</p></td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td>possible mobility impact</td>
<td><p>FR2 60kHz</p>
<p>Sync</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>M(a)= 9.69128</p>
<p>M(b)= 7.02565</p>
<p>N= 5.96628</p></td>
<td><p>(a) 38.44%</p>
<p>(b) 15.08%</p></td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td>possible mobility impact</td>
<td><p>FR2 60kHz</p>
<p>Async</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>M(a)=8.05085</p>
<p>M(b)=6.08835</p>
<p>N=5.02897</p></td>
<td><p>(a) 37.54%</p>
<p>(b) 17.4%</p></td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td>possible mobility impact</td>
<td><p>FR2 120kHz</p>
<p>Sync</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>M(a)=9.69147</p>
<p>M(b)=7.02585</p>
<p>N=5.96647</p></td>
<td><p>(a) 38.44%</p>
<p>(b) 15.08%</p></td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>1280</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td>possible mobility impact</td>
<td><p>FR2 120kHz</p>
<p>Async</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>CSI-RS resource in the same frequency layer are configured in a measurement window.</td>
<td><p>Number of configured CSI-RS resources = 4</p>
<p>5.03(baseline)</p>
<p>4.27(concentrated CSI-RS configuration)</p></td>
<td>15.10%</td>
<td>CONNECTED</td>
<td>200</td>
<td>5</td>
<td><p>3km/h</p>
<p>NLOS</p></td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td>For baseline, all CSI-RS resource are randomly placed in the time domain (uniform distribution)</td>
<td><p>UE is assumed to retune its RF to target frequency to perform CSI-RS based inter-frequency measurement once there is a CSI-RS resource to measure, and it will immediately switch RF back to its serving frequency to continue Tx/Rx unless there is no enough time (i.e. time interval between two CSI-RS resources is shorter than 1ms).</p>
<p>Number of configured CSI-RS resources are the allowed maximum number of CSI-RS resource for mobility</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Number of configured CSI-RS resources = 16</p>
<p>7.32(baseline)</p>
<p>4.54(concentrated CSI-RS configuration)</p></td>
<td>37.97%</td>
<td>CONNECTED</td>
<td>200</td>
<td>5</td>
<td><p>3km/h</p>
<p>NLOS</p></td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Number of configured CSI-RS resources = 32</p>
<p>8.69(baseline)</p>
<p>4.90(concentrated CSI-RS configuration)</p></td>
<td>43.61%</td>
<td>CONNECTED</td>
<td>200</td>
<td>5</td>
<td><p>3km/h</p>
<p>NLOS</p></td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Number of configured CSI-RS resources = 48</p>
<p>9.04(baseline)</p>
<p>5.25(concentrated CSI-RS configuration)</p></td>
<td>41.92%</td>
<td>CONNECTED</td>
<td>200</td>
<td>5</td>
<td><p>3km/h</p>
<p>NLOS</p></td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Number of configured CSI-RS resources = 64</p>
<p>8.97(baseline)</p>
<p>5.61(concentrated CSI-RS configuration)</p></td>
<td>37.46%</td>
<td>CONNECTED</td>
<td>200</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>3km/h NLOS</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Number of configured CSI-RS resources = 80</p>
<p>8.75(baseline)</p>
<p>5.97(concentrated CSI-RS configuration)</p></td>
<td>31.77%</td>
<td>CONNECTED</td>
<td>200</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>3km/h NLOS</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Number of configured CSI-RS resources = 96</p>
<p>8.52(baseline)</p>
<p>6.32(concentrated CSI-RS configuration)</p></td>
<td>25.82%</td>
<td>CONNECTED</td>
<td>200</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>3km/h NLOS</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Source 2</p>
<p>Sony [93]</p></td>
<td>Reduced number of inter-freq layers measured (1 layer vs 2)</td>
<td><p>58.4: 1 layer</p>
<p>73.9: 2 layer</p></td>
<td>21%</td>
<td>Conn</td>
<td>40ms</td>
<td>2/slot</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>See note</td>
<td><em>-</em></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Note: more non-gap resource is available to UE with fewer measurement gaps</p>
<p>Power consumption averaged over DRX cycle and is also applicable to full measurement period</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td>Reduced number of inter-freq layers measured (2 layer vs 4)</td>
<td><p>73.9: 2 layer</p>
<p>99.6: 4 layer</p></td>
<td>26%</td>
<td>Conn</td>
<td>40 ms</td>
<td>2/slot</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>See note</td>
<td><em>-</em></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 17: Evaluation of relaxed the number of measured beams by
considering spatial information aspects

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>　</th>
<th>(0)</th>
<th>(1)</th>
<th>(2)</th>
<th>(3)</th>
<th>(4)</th>
<th>(5)</th>
<th>(6)</th>
<th>(7)</th>
<th>(8)</th>
<th>(9)</th>
<th>(10)</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td>(0) Power saving schemes description<br />
(1) Average power consumption<br />
(2) Power reduction compared to baseline [%]</td>
<td>(3) RRC Idle/RRC Inactive (i) or  RRC Connected (c)<br />
(4)Measurement period [ms]<br />
(5)number of samples(e.g., SSB bursts) in each MP<br />
(6) UE speed and channel model<br />
(7) system impact, e.g., overhead<br />
(8) Performance impact<br />
(9)Additional assumption, e.g., PO and SSB offset,</td>
<td>Note</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Source 1</p>
<p>Huawei [100]</p></td>
<td><p>Adjacent directional beams of each SSB can be provided by gNB to reduce SSB number of UE RRM measurement and loop convergence.</p>
<p>A: UE measures all the beams</p>
<p>B: all the adjacent beams and serving beam is used for RRM measurement and loop convergence.</p>
<p> </p>
<p> </p></td>
<td><p>A(baseline):7.86</p>
<p>B:4.03</p></td>
<td>48.7%</td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>DRX cycle length = 0.32s</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td><p>Determined by signaling periodicity</p>
<p> </p></td>
<td> </td>
<td>The periodicity of SSB is 20ms, and the gap length between PO and SSB are randomly distributed</td>
<td>1 SSB burst set with 64 SSBs is used for loop convergence in baseline and with averaged adjacent SSBs for loop convergence in optimal schemes.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>A(baseline):4.43</p>
<p>B:2.51</p></td>
<td>43.2%</td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>DRX cycle length = 0.64s</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>A(baseline):2.72</p>
<p>B: 1.76</p></td>
<td>35.2%</td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>DRX cycle length = 1.28 s</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>A(baseline):1.86</p>
<p>B:1.38</p></td>
<td>25.8%</td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>DRX cycle length = 2.56 s</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>A(baseline):5.67</p>
<p>B:4.03</p></td>
<td>28.9%</td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>DRX cycle length = 0.32s</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Determined by signaling periodicity</td>
<td></td>
<td>The periodicity of SSB is 20ms, and the gap length between PO and SSB are randomly distributed</td>
<td>1 SSB burst set with 32 SSBs is used for loop convergence in baseline and with averaged adjacent SSBs for loop convergence in optimal schemes.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>A(baseline):3.34</p>
<p>B:2.52</p></td>
<td>24.6%</td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>DRX cycle length = 0.64s</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>A(baseline):2.17</p>
<p>B:1.76</p></td>
<td>18.9%</td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>DRX cycle length = 1.28 s</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>A(baseline):1.58</p>
<p>B:1.38</p></td>
<td>12.9%</td>
<td>IDLE</td>
<td>DRX cycle length = 2.56 s</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Observation:

2 sources show that reducing the number of measured inter-frequency
layers can provide 21\~38% power saving gain for RRC CONNECTED states,
and 1 source shows 4%-35% power saving gain for RRC IDLE states by
assuming reducing inter-frequency layers from 6 to 3. The mobility
performance impact is not provided.

6 Higher layer procedure for UE power saving
============================================

6.1 UE paging procedure based on power saving signal/channel/procedure
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The power saving signal/channel related paging is down-prioritized in
the study.

Extending the DRX cycle length to 10.24s in idle and inactive mode will
be considered. Increasing it above 10.24s will not be studied.

A power saving specific rule will be defined for DRX cycle determination
in idle and inactive mode, in the presence of different DRX cycle
configurations (e.g. UE specific and default). It is FFS how it is
enabled. The DRX cycles are decided by the network based on UE
preference indications. All enhancements are aiming at reusing existing
mechanism (e.g. eDRX).

More than one UE may monitor the same Paging Occasion (PO), which can
cause false paging alarms in the UE, i.e. when the UE receives a paging
message on PDSCH, which is not intended for that UE, causing unnecessary
power consumption in the UE. False paging alarms also occur when the UE
has changed cell since it was last paged, i.e. due to mobility, where
the network has to page the UE in more than one cell. However, there was
no consensus to prioritize this issue for RAN2.

6.2 UE power saving procedure in transition from RRC\_CONNECTED to RRC\_IDLE/RRC\_INACTIVE state 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A mechanism for a UE to indicate its preference of transitioning out of
RRC\_CONNECTED state to the network is beneficial to reduce UE\'s power
consumption. And the corresponding signalling details and whether the UE
provides release assistance and/or state preference are to be defined.

6.3 Higher layer procedures for the UE power saving schemes in RRC\_CONNECTED
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The higher layer procedure for the UE power saving schemes includes the
required signalling and procedures (when needed) for the proposed power
saving schemes in Section 5.

### 6.3.1 Higher Layer procedure related to PDCCH-based power saving signal/channel scheme for wake-up purpose (Section 5.1.4)

**The PDCCH-based power saving signal/channel scheme for wake-up purpose
is considered jointly with DRX** i.e. it **is only configured when DRX
is configured. If the PDCCH-based power saving signal/channel for
wake-up purpose is not configured, the legacy DRX operation applies. The
higher layer procedure in support of the PDCCH-based power saving
signal/channel scheme for wake-up purpose was studied for its adaptation
to DRX operation (Section 5.1.4).**

**When configured, the PDCCH-based power saving signal/channel scheme
for wake-up purpose is monitored at occasions located** at a known
offset before the start of the *drx-onDurationTimer*. The offset is part
of physical layer design.

The PDCCH-based power saving signal/channel for wake-up purpose can
indicate the UE to monitor or skip the PDCCH during the next occurrence
of the *drx-onDurationTimer*. In the latter case, the UE does not start
the *drx-onDurationTimer* at its next occasion. From higher layer
perspective, in order to minimize the rate of such PDCCH-based power
saving signal/channel transmission from the network, the preference is
that the PDCCH-based power saving signal/channel for wake-up purpose is
used to indicate to the UE to wake up to monitor the PDCCH during the
next occurrence of the *drx-onDurationTimer.*

**Except for the** *drx-onDurationTimer***, the** PDCCH-based power
saving signal/channel for wake-up purpose has no impact on other DRX
timers and does not impact the Active Time due to other triggers than
the *drx-onDurationTimer*. The UE behaviour when the occasion of
PDCCH-based power saving signal/channel for wake-up purpose collides
with Active Time due to other triggers than the *drx-onDurationTimer*
(e.g. *drx-InactivityTimer*) should be addressed in the WI phase.

UE behaviour in case of mis-detection of the PDCCH-based power saving
signal/channel for wake-up purpose should also be addressed in the WI
phase.

### 6.3.2 Higher Layer Procedure for DCI-based PDCCH monitoring reduction (Section 5.1.5)

**The higher layer procedure in support of DCI-based PDCCH monitoring
skipping (which can include DCI-based PDCCH monitoring periodicity
adaptation) was studied to achieve PDCCH monitoring/decoding reduction
(Section 5.1.5). If enabled, it is assumed that** DCI-based PDCCH
monitoring skipping could be configured with or without DRX.

DCI-based PDCCH monitoring skipping aims to operate on a short time
scale (i.e. shorter time scale then the L2 DRX). Under this condition,
it has not been identified that DCI-based PDCCH monitoring skipping
duplicates the DRX functionality.

The DCI-based PDCCH monitoring skipping is a physical layer procedure
with minimal impact, if any, on the MAC layer. The MAC timers are not
affected by the DCI-based PDCCH monitoring skipping command, except for
timers related to UL triggered activities (e.g. RA, SR and BFR), namely
how/if the DCI-based PDCCH monitoring skipping command impacts L2
operation while a Random Access or scheduling request procedure is
on-going.

Further simulation results involving more scenarios (short DRX, DRX MAC
CE) are shown in Section 5.1.5 for comparison.

### 6.3.3 Power saving in CA/DC

UE\'s power consumption can be reduced in CA configuration by reducing
PDCCH monitoring on activated SCells.

Methods for reducing power consumption in DC configuration (EN-DC in
particular) should also be supported.

Enhancements to Rel-15 DRX procedure can be studied further if they do
not violate the general principle of single DRX configuration per MAC
entity.

### 6.3.4 UE assistance information (Section 5.1.6)

UE\'s power consumption may be reduced if the UE could provide following
assistance information to the network: mobility history information
(e.g. similarly as in LTE via *mobilityState*, and
*MobilityHistoryReport* in TS 36.331), power preferred information
(baseline LTE PPI in a well-defined manner) related to C-DRX, BWP and
SCell configurations.

### **6.3.5** Adaptation to the number of antennas (Section 5.1.3)

The adaptation to the number of antennas was briefly studied. It is
recommended to support the possibility to configure a different MIMO
layer configuration for the initial/default BWP compared with other BWPs
of a Serving Cell. It should be further considered if this can be
extended to a per-BWP MIMO layer configuration.

6.4 Higher layer procedures for power consumption reduction in RRM measurements
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Relaxing the serving and neighbour cell measurements for NR UE was
studied, considering the mobility-related aspects. RRM measurement
relaxation for serving cell is down-prioritized for UE in any RRC state.
RRM measurements for neighbour cells in both intra and inter-frequencies
can be relaxed for UEs in RRC\_CONNECTED and RRC\_IDLE/INACTIVE.
Measurement relaxation for UEs in RRC\_CONNECTED is under network
control.

The relaxed monitoring criterion under which the UE may relax RRM
measurements was studied. The relaxed monitoring criteria may include
the following aspects, but are not limited to:

\- UE mobility status (e.g. serving cell variation, speed, movement,
direction, cell re-selection, UE type ...)

\- Link quality (e.g. serving cell threshold/quality, position in cell
...)

\- Serving cell beam status (e.g. beam change, direction, beam specific
link condition...)

The exact relaxation criteria are to be defined, and the following two
should be treated with higher priority:

1\) UE is not at cell edge,

2\) UE is stationary or with low mobility.

It is beneficial to perform RRM measurement relaxation by allowing
measurements with longer intervals, and/or by reducing the number of
cells/carriers/SSB to be measured.

Measurement relaxation rules can be discussed further,

Further simulation results addressing mobility performance evaluation
for time domain RRM measurement relaxation are provided in section
5.3.1.

7 Conclusions
=============

The UE power saving study completes the UE power consumption model for
evaluation based on the inputs from many sources. Evaluation results
have been shown based on the UE power consumption model through
calibration and subsequent evaluations. The UE power model could be used
as the reference model in evaluating the UE power consumption for any
other features if applicable.

RAN1\'s study shows the following power saving gains over the agreed
baseline in UE power saving schemes with UE adaptation in frequency
domain, time domain, antenna domain, DRX operations, and reducing PDCCH
monitoring with different traffic types, such as FTP, IM, web browsing,
video streaming, gaming and VoIP, and network configurations,

\- The power saving schemes with UE adaptation to BWP switching show the
power saving gains ranged from 16% - 45% over the agreed baseline
configuration. The power saving schemes with UE adaptation to SCell
operation show12% - 57.75% power saving gain with average latency
increase 0.1% - 2.6%.

\- The power saving schemes with cross-slot scheduling shows up to
2%-28% power saving gains with UPT degradation 0.3%-25%. The power
saving gain decreases and the UPT degradation increases as the K0
increase. The power saving gain 15%-17% and 0% -93% overhead increases
is observed for same-slot scheduling only with small packet. The power
saving gain less than 2% is observed for multi-slot scheduling.

\- The power saving schemes with UE adaptation to the number of MIMO
layers or number of Tx/Rx antenna (panels) provides up to 3%-30% power
saving gain and 4% latency increase for dynamic antenna adaptation. The
power saving gain 6%-30% is observed for semi-static antenna adaptation
with expected latency and UPT degradation. Additional network resource
is used for compensation of the loss of multi-antenna processing gain.

\- The power saving schemes with UE adaptation to the DRX operation
shows 8%\~50% power saving gains with latency increase in the range of
2%\~13%. The power saving gain for dynamic DRX configuration/adaptation
is 8%-70% with latency increase 2% - 323%. Rel-15 enabled DRX operation
shows negative 37% to 47 % power saving gain over the agreed baseline.

\- The power saving schemes for dynamic adaption of UE PDCCH monitoring
shows 5% - 85% power saving gains with the latency increase/UPT
degradation in the range of (0% - 115%)/( 5%- 43%).

It is noted that the combined power saving techniques (as listed above)
may not necessarily provide linear addition of individual power saving
gains. It is noted that the power saving gains shown in the specific
context as cited above are relative numbers, while it is understood that
the absolute percentage of power consumption for a specific context may
vary depending on the actual usage.

The UE assistance information provides the gNB additional information in
facilitating UE adaptation to the traffic and reducing the power
consumption of some respective power saving schemes shown
aforementioned. UE preferred configurations are fed back to the gNB to
help the network optimizing the resource utilization and assisting UE in
achieving power consumption reduction.

The power saving schemes with the power saving signal/channel triggering
UE adaptation shows the power saving with adaptation in different
domains, such as DRX operation, BWP switching, and reducing PDCCH
monitoring aforementioned.

For adapting/relaxing RRM measurement in time domain

\- 11.1% - 26.6% and 7.4% - 17.8% power saving gains are shown for
increasing measurement period 4 times and 2 times respectively for RRC
CONNECTED state, 17.9%-19.7% and 0.89%-5.36% power saving gains are
shown RRC IDLE/INACTIVE state by increasing measurement period for 1 SSB
burst set for measurement and periodic activities and 2 or 3 SSB burst
set for measurement and periodic activities respectively.

\- For stationary or low mobility (e.g., 3km/h) case, increasing
measurement period has less impact (e.g., handover failure rate changes
from 0% to 0.26% for 3km/h by extending 4 times measurement period) to
the mobility performance compared to high mobility cases (e.g., handover
failure rate changes from 0%-1% for 60km/h by extending 4 times
measurement period).

For adapting/relaxing RRM measurement for intra-frequency measurement by
reducing the number of measured cells,

\- By assuming number of neighbouring cells to be measured is reduced,
it is shown that about 4.7% - 7.1% power saving gain can be observed if
reducing the number of measured cells for IDLE state. 1 source shows
that about 1.8% - 21.3% power saving gain can be observed if reducing
the number of measured cells for CONNECTED state.

\- In additional to that, by also assuming that UE can limit the
processing for measurement within a constrained time period and/or with
reduced complexity, 26.43% - 37.5% power saving gain is shown.

\- The corresponding performance impact was not reported and summarized

For additional resource for RRM measurement

\- For RRC IDLE/INACTIVE, by using additional resources for RRM
measurement, the UE power saving gain is 19%\~38%. Analysis on network
architecture impact, higher-layer/PHY-layer signaling overhead and
network energy consumption is not provided. Two sources report 1.6% of
SSB overhead for 160ms additional reference signals periodicity assuming
that SSB burst set periodicity is 20ms. If static UE specific signals
(e.g., CSI-RS) for connected mode UEs can be reused as additional
resource for RRM, reference signal overhead may not increase.

\- For RRC CONNECTED, one source showed that, by having CSI-RS
repetition for CSI-RS based RRM, the UE power saving gain is
11.8%\~20.7% by assuming that CSI-RS overhead of baseline is identical
to CSI-RS overhead with enhancement. The analysis on handover failure
rate is not provided under the assumed overhead.  

\- For reducing the number of measured inter-frequency layers

\- 2 sources show that reducing the number of measured inter-frequency
layers can provide 21%\~38% power saving gain for RRC CONNECTED states,
and 1 source shows 14%\~35% power saving gain for RRC IDLE states by
assuming reducing inter-frequency layers from 6 to 3. The mobility
performance impact is not provided.

It is noted that for RRM evaluation, PDCCH-only monitoring without data
is assumed for RRC CONNECTED state.

Further conclusions from the study of higher layer procedures are given
below.

**PDCCH-based power saving signal/channel scheme for wake-up purpose
(Section 5.1.4)**

It is recommended that the PDCCH-based power saving signal/channel for
wake-up purpose is used to indicate to the UE to wake up to monitor the
PDCCH during the next occurrence of the *drx-onDurationTimer*. At least
the following should be addressed:

\- UE behaviour when the PDCCH-based power saving signal/channel for
wake-up purpose collides with any event part of legacy Active Time (e.g.
DRX Inactivity timer)

\- UE behaviour in case of mis-detection of the PDCCH-based power saving
signal/channel for wake-up purpose

**DCI-based PDCCH monitoring reduction (Section 5.1.5)**

The DCI-based PDCCH monitoring skipping is studied, with or without DRX.
For the power saving scheme to bring most value, it is recommended to
consider skipping durations shorter than the L2 DRX cycles.

In general, the above feature could and should be designed to have
minimal impact on the MAC layer.

**MIMO layer adaptation (Section 5.1.3)**

It is recommended to support the possibility to configure a different
MIMO layer configuration for the initial/default BWP compared with other
BWPs of a Serving Cell. It should be further considered if this can be
extended to a per-BWP MIMO layer configuration.

**Fast RRC state transition**

It is recommended to support a mechanism for a UE to indicate its
preference of transitioning out of RRC\_CONNECTED state. The
corresponding signalling details and whether the UE provides release
assistance and/or state preference are to be addressed further.

**Power saving in CA/DC**

UE\'s power consumption can be reduced in CA configuration by reducing
PDCCH monitoring on activated SCells.

Methods for reducing power consumption in DC configuration (EN-DC in
particular) should also be supported.

Enhancements to Rel-15 DRX procedure can be studied further if they do
not violate the general principle of single DRX configuration per MAC
entity.

**UE assistance information (Section 5.1.6)**

It is also identified as helpful to further evaluate the following UE\'s
assistance information: mobility history information (e.g. similarly as
in LTE via *mobilityState*, and *MobilityHistoryReport* (TS 36.331),
power preference indication (baseline LTE PPI in a well-defined manner),
UE\'s preferred information related to C-DRX, BWP and SCell
configurations. Other information that RAN1 considers as beneficial for
UE power saving can be included in the UE assistance information.

**RRM measurement relaxation (Section 5.3)**

RRM measurement for neighbour cells for both intra and inter-freq can be
relaxed for UE in RRC\_CONNECTED and RRC\_IDLE/INACTIVE. Measurement
relaxation in RRC CONNECTED is under network control.

The exact relaxed monitoring criteria under which the UE may relax RRM
measurements are to be defined, and the following two should be treated
with higher priority: if UE is not at cell edge, or if UE is stationary
or with low mobility.

It is beneficial to perform RRM measurement relaxation by allowing
measurements with longer intervals, and/or by reducing the number of
cells/carriers/SSB to be measured.

Measurement relaxation rules can be discussed further, involving RAN4,
if this topic is addressed in the WI.

**Power saving for paging procedure**

The extending the DRX cycle length to 10.24s was studied in idle and
inactive mode. A power saving specific rule will be defined for DRX
cycle determination in idle and inactive mode, in the presence of
different DRX cycle configurations (e.g. UE specific and default).  
The DRX cycles are decided by the network based on UE preference
indications. All enhancements are aiming at reusing existing mechanism
(e.g. eDRX).

The issue of false paging alarms in the UE caused by more than one UE
monitoring the same Paging Occasion (PO) was studied but no consensus
was reached.

8 Appendix -- Evaluation methodology
====================================

8.1 UE power consumption model
------------------------------

The following power states and relative power consumption values for the
reference configuration are adopted for the study of UE power saving.

### 8.1.1 UE power consumption model for FR1

**Reference Configuration for FR1**

\- Downlink: TDD

\- Subcarrier spacing (SCS): 30 kHz

\- Number of carrier: 1CC,

\- System Bandwidth: 100 MHz

\- PDCCH region of 2 symbol at beginning of a slot,

\- k0 = 0,

\- maximum number of CCEs = 56,

\- 36 PDCCH blind decoding,

\- PDSCH of max data rate

\- Modulation: 256QAM

\- MIMO configuration: 4x4 MIMO,

\- Number of RBs for TRS = 52,

\- 4RX UE Capability =1

\- Uplink: TDD

\- Subcarrier spacing (SCS): 30 kHz SCS,

\- Number of carrier: 1CC,

\- System Bandwidth: 100MHz,

\- Tx antenna configuration: 1TX,

\- Power levels: 0dBm and 23dBm

\- Power values are averaged over the operations within a slot.

\- Different and/or additional parameter assumptions used for evaluation
should be clearly stated.

Table 18: UE power consumption model for FR1

+---------------+----------------------------------+-----------------+
| Power State   | Characteristics                  | Relative Power  |
+===============+==================================+=================+
| Deep Sleep    | Time interval for the sleep      | 1\              |
|               | should be larger than the total  | (Optional: 0.5) |
|               | transition time entering and     |                 |
|               | leaving this state. Accurate     |                 |
|               | timing may not be maintained.    |                 |
+---------------+----------------------------------+-----------------+
| Light Sleep   | Time interval for the sleep      | 20              |
|               | should be larger than the total  |                 |
|               | transition time entering and     |                 |
|               | leaving this state.              |                 |
+---------------+----------------------------------+-----------------+
| Micro sleep   | Immediate transition is assumed  | 45              |
|               | for power saving study purpose   |                 |
|               | from or to a non-sleep state     |                 |
+---------------+----------------------------------+-----------------+
| PDCCH-only    | No PDSCH and same-slot           | 100             |
|               | scheduling; this includes time   |                 |
|               | for PDCCH decoding and any       |                 |
|               | micro-sleep within the slot.     |                 |
+---------------+----------------------------------+-----------------+
| SSB or\       | SSB can be used for fine         | 100             |
| CSI-RS proc.  | time-frequency sync. and RSRP    |                 |
|               | measurement of the               |                 |
|               | serving/camping cell. TRS is the |                 |
|               | considered CSI-RS for sync. FFS  |                 |
|               | the power scaling for processing |                 |
|               | other configurations of CSI-RS.  |                 |
+---------------+----------------------------------+-----------------+
| PDCCH + PDSCH | PDCCH + PDSCH. ACK/NACK in long  | 300             |
|               | PUCCH is modeled by UL power     |                 |
|               | state.                           |                 |
+---------------+----------------------------------+-----------------+
| UL            | Long PUCCH or PUSCH.             | 250 (0 dBm)     |
|               |                                  |                 |
|               |                                  | 700 (23 dBm)    |
+---------------+----------------------------------+-----------------+

\- FFS: Power saving signal processing power and transition energy.

\- The following additional transition energy and total transition time
for the three sleep types are adopted as working assumption for power
saving SI:

\- Both ramp down and ramp up transitions are included.

\- Additional processing time for acquiring synchronization is not
included in total transition time.

\- There is always a non-sleep power state between adjacent sleeps.

Table 19: UE power consumption during the state transistion

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Sleep type           | Additional           | Total transition     |
|                      | transition energy:   | time                 |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | (Relative power x    |                      |
|                      | ms)                  |                      |
+======================+======================+======================+
| Deep sleep           | 450                  | 20 ms                |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Light sleep          | 100                  | 6 ms                 |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Micro sleep          | 0                    | 0 ms\*               |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| \* Immediate         |                      |                      |
| transition is        |                      |                      |
| assumed for power    |                      |                      |
| saving study purpose |                      |                      |
| from or to a         |                      |                      |
| non-sleep state      |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

![](media/image11.png){width="4.187166447944007in"
height="0.9235618985126859in"}

Figure 1: Illustration of UE power consumption at state transition

### 8.1.2 UE power consumption model for FR2

**Reference configuration for FR2:**

\- Downlink: TDD, FR2

\- Subcarrier spacing (SCS): 120 kHz

\- Number of carriers: 1CC

\- System Bandwidth: 100 MHz

\- PDCCH region of 2 symbol at beginning of a slot

\- k0 = 0

\- maximum number of CCEs = 32

\- 20 PDCCH blind decoding

\- PDSCH of max data rate with

\- Modulation: 64QAM

\- MIMO configuration: 2x2

\- Number of RBs for TRS = TBD

\- 2RX UE Capability = 1

\- Uplink: TDD, FR2

\- Subcarrier Spacing (SCS): 120 kHz

\- Number of carrier = 1CC

\- System Bandwidth = 100MHz

\- Tx antenna configuration: 1TX chain

\- Power levels: \[FFS dBm\]

\- Power values are averaged over the operations within a slot

\- Different and/or additional parameter assumptions used for evaluation
should be clearly stated.

Table 20: UE power consumption model for FR2

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Power State    | C              | Relative Power |                |
|                | haracteristics |                |                |
+================+================+================+================+
|                |                | FR1            | FR2            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| > PDCCH-only   | > No PDSCH and | > 100          | > 175          |
|                | > same-slot    |                |                |
|                | > scheduling;  |                |                |
|                | > this         |                |                |
|                | > includes     |                |                |
|                | > time for     |                |                |
|                | > PDCCH        |                |                |
|                | > decoding and |                |                |
|                | > any          |                |                |
|                | > micro-sleep  |                |                |
|                | > within the   |                |                |
|                | > slot.        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| > SSB or\      | > SSB can be   | > 100          | > 175          |
| > CSI-RS proc. | > used for     |                |                |
|                | > fine         |                |                |
|                | >              |                |                |
|                | time-frequency |                |                |
|                | > sync. and    |                |                |
|                | > RSRP         |                |                |
|                | > measurement  |                |                |
|                | > of the       |                |                |
|                | > s            |                |                |
|                | erving/camping |                |                |
|                | > cell.. TRS   |                |                |
|                | > is the       |                |                |
|                | > considered   |                |                |
|                | > CSI-RS for   |                |                |
|                | > sync. FFS    |                |                |
|                | > the power    |                |                |
|                | > scaling for  |                |                |
|                | > processing   |                |                |
|                | > other        |                |                |
|                | >              |                |                |
|                | configurations |                |                |
|                | > of CSI-RS.   |                |                |
|                | >              |                |                |
|                | > (Note 2 SSBs |                |                |
|                | > in a slot    |                |                |
|                | > for the ref. |                |                |
|                | > config.)     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| > PDCCH +      | > PDCCH +      | > 300          | > 350          |
| > PDSCH        | > PDSCH.       |                |                |
|                | > ACK/NACK in  |                |                |
|                | > long PUCCH   |                |                |
|                | > is modeled   |                |                |
|                | > by UL power  |                |                |
|                | > state.       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| > UL           | > Long PUCCH   | > 250 (0 dBm)  | > 350          |
|                | > or PUSCH.    | >              | >              |
|                |                | > 700 (23 dBm) | > (FFS Tx      |
|                |                |                | > power level) |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

\- Sleep states power level, energy overhead, and transitions are same
as FR1.

### 8.1.3 UE power consumption scaling for adaptation

The power scaling scheme for FR1 and FR2 power states are in Table 4.

Table 21: UE power consumption scaling for adaptation

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Scaling for FR1      | Proposal             | Comment              |
+======================+======================+======================+
| BWP Bandwidth (DL)   | Scaling of X MHz =   | For 10MHz BW, only   |
|                      | 0.4 + 0.6 \* (X -    | AL up to 8 can be    |
|                      | 20) / 80. Linear     | used for PDCCH       |
|                      | interpolation for    |                      |
|                      | intermediate         | The transition time  |
|                      | bandwidths. Valid    | is the same as       |
|                      | only for X = 10, 20, | DCI-based BWP        |
|                      | 40, 80, and 100.     | switching delay for  |
|                      |                      | Rel-15.              |
|                      | Above scaling is     |                      |
|                      | applicable for FR1   | If the power after   |
|                      | only.                | scaling is smaller   |
|                      |                      | than the BWP         |
|                      | In case scaling is   | transition power,    |
|                      | needed for FR2,      | assume the BWP       |
|                      | companies can report | transition power as  |
|                      | the assumed scaling  | the output of        |
|                      | factor.              | scaling unless       |
|                      |                      | otherwise justified. |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| BWP Bandwidth (UL)   | No scaling at 0dBm   |                      |
|                      | or 23dBm             |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Above scaling is     |                      |
|                      | applicable for FR1   |                      |
|                      | only.                |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | In case scaling is   |                      |
|                      | needed for FR2,      |                      |
|                      | companies can report |                      |
|                      | the assumed scaling  |                      |
|                      | factor.              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| CA (DL)              | 2CC is 1.7x1CC       | Act                  |
|                      |                      | ivation/deactivation |
|                      | 4CC is 3.4x1CC (i.e. | delay follows RAN4   |
|                      | 2x 2CC)              | specification; FFS   |
|                      |                      | transition energy    |
|                      | Above refers to the  |                      |
|                      | worst case CA        | Applicable for FR1   |
|                      | configuration in     | and FR2              |
|                      | terms of power       |                      |
|                      | consumption.         |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| CA (UL)              | Same as downlink at  | Applicable for FR1   |
|                      | 0dBm. No scaling at  | and FR2              |
|                      | 23dBm                |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | 2CC is 1.2x1CC at    |                      |
|                      | 23dBm                |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Limit scaling up to  |                      |
|                      | 2CC.                 |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Antenna scaling (DL) | 2Rx power is 0.7x    | Assume same number   |
|                      | 4Rx power for FR1    | of antenna elements  |
|                      |                      | per Rx chain         |
|                      | 1Rx power is 0.7x    |                      |
|                      | 2Rx power for FR2    |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Antenna scaling (UL) | 2Tx power is 1.4x    | 2Tx support is not   |
|                      | 1Tx power at 0dBm.   | considered for FR2.  |
|                      | 1.2x.at 23dBm FR1    |                      |
|                      | only                 |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| PDCCH-only           | Power of cross-slot  | Applicable for FR1   |
|                      | scheduling is 0.7x   | and FR2              |
|                      | same-slot scheduling |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| SSB                  | One SSB power is     |                      |
|                      | 0.75 of two SSB      |                      |
|                      | power, i.e. 75 power |                      |
|                      | units                |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| PDSCH-only slot      | 280 for FR1          | This assumes the     |
|                      |                      | same number of PDSCH |
|                      | 325 for FR2          | symbols as in the    |
|                      |                      | PDCCH+PDSCH case.    |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| CSI-RS               | FFS for scaling      |                      |
|                      | w.r.t. \# of symbols |                      |
|                      | for CSI-RS           |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Short PUCCH          | Short PUCCH power =  | Applicable for FR1   |
|                      | 0.3 x uplink power   | and FR2.             |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Reference config     |                      |
|                      | consists of 1-symbol |                      |
|                      | PUCCH                |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| SRS                  | SRS power = 0.3 x    | Applicable for FR1   |
|                      | uplink power         | and FR2.             |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

\- Note: Scaling applies only to non-sleep power states.

\- Note: latency involved in antenna scaling is FFS

\- For evaluation, when BWP transition duration is one slot or longer,
the slot-average power level is 50 power units

\- In case when BWP transition duration is \<one slot (if defined), up
to each company to report the power level assumed

\- Companies to report the type of BWP transition time (type 1 and/or
type 2) assumed in the evaluation

\- Note: When BWP adaptation power scaling is applied, the resultant
power should not be smaller than the above power level. Justification
should be provided if a different assumption is made (for example, UE is
assumed to be in a state that is not fully active).

\- The power scaling factors for BWP adaptation and number of antenna
reduction are not intended to be applicable to the power states
associated with RRM power modelling in section 8.1.4.

\- For evaluation purpose, it is assumed that a periodicity of max(DRX
cycle, 160 msec) is the baseline for periodic activities, e.g.
time/frequency, channel or beam tracking (if applicable)

\- Other periodicity values are not precluded -- companies to report if
other values are assumed

\- Companies to report detailed assumptions, e.g. the resources used,
the relative timing relationship between DRX cycle and periodic
activity, whether and how UL reporting is done, etc.

Power scaling scheme for PDCCH candidates processing reduction:

\- Scaling for the power reduction due to PDCCH candidates processing
(e.g. AL/CCE/BD) reduction is modelled solely based on its effect on
micro sleep portion of the PDCCH-only slot

\- The UE power scheme should include the portion of PDCCH processing
time reduction in accordance to PDCCH candidates (e.g. AL/CCE/BD)
reduction

\- Note: In the reference configuration, the first two symbols are PDCCH
symbols

\- For power scaling for PDCCH candidate reduction (for same slot
scheduling only):

P(α) = α ∙ Pt + (1 -- α) ∙ 0.7Pt

\- where α is the ratio of PDCCH candidates to the max number of PDCCH
candidates in the reference configuration (α\>0). Pt is the PDCCH-only
power for same-slot scheduling.

For UE power modelling, the following power scaling relationship is
assumed:

\- For simplicity,

\- The slot-averaged power for \"PDCCH+PDSCH+PUCCH\" is same as
\"PDCCH+PDSCH\"

\- The slot-averaged power for \"PDSCH+PUCCH\" is same as \"PDSCH-only\"

\- The slot-averaged power for \"PDCCH+PUCCH\" is the sum of
\"PDCCH-only\" power and \"short PUCCH\" power.

\- Note: PDCCH-only with cross-slot scheduling scaling is also
applicable

\- Note: it is observed via evaluations (where 0dBm PUCCH Tx power is
assumed) that the difference is not significant

\- For non-RRM evaluation, for \"PDCCH+PDSCH\" concurrent in the same
slot as \"SSB or CSI-RS processing\", assume \"PDCCH+PDSCH\" power

\- For non-RRM evaluation, for \"PDSCH only\" concurrent in the same
slot as \"SSB or CSI-RS processing\", assume \"PDSCH only\" power

\- For \"PDCCH-only\" and \"SSB or CSI-RS processing\" concurrent in a
slot, the slot-averaged power is 0.85x the sum of the respective power,
at least for FR1

\- For FR1, 0.85\*(100+100) = 170

\- For FR2, 0.85\*(175+175) = 300

\- For \"SSB processing\" and \"CSI-RS processing\" concurrent in a
slot, the slot-averaged power is 0.85x the sum of the respective power,
at least for FR1

\- For FR1, 0.85\*(100+100) = 170

\- For FR2, 0.85\*(175+175) = 300

\- 2-SSB within a slot is assumed

### 8.1.4 UE power consumption model for RRM measurements

**Reference configuration and assumptions for RRM measurements:**

\- SSB periodicity is 20msec

\- 2 SSBs per slot are measured

\- SMTC periodicity is 20msec

\- For inter-band

\- Up to 2 frequency layers and

\- Gap pattern ID = 0 defined in TS 38.133 (i.e., measurement gap length
of 6msec and measurement gap periodicity of 40msec)

Use the following as a reference for RRM power evaluation:

\- Assume SMTC window duration of 2ms (corresponding to 30kHz SCS) for
synchronised FR1 scenario.

\- Assume SMTC window duration of 5ms for all other cases

\- Note: other values are not precluded

#### 8.1.4.1 For intra-frequency measurements

Table 22: UE power consumption for the RRM measurements

  N: Number of cells for intra-frequency measurement   Synchronous case   Asynchronous case         
  ---------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ------------------- ----- -----
                                                       FR1                FR2                 FR1   FR2
  N=8                                                  150                225-                170   285
  N=4                                                  120                195                 140   255

\- All above values are slot-averaged power (*P~fr1~* or *P~fr2~* for
FR1 or FR2 respectively).

\- Synchronous case means actual SSB transmissions from cells are
time-aligned e.g., timing of SSB~i~ from cell~i~ is aligned with timing
of SSB~i~ from cell~j~.

\- Asynchronous case means actual SSB transmissions from cells are not
time-aligned e.g., timing of SSB~i~ from cell~i~ is not aligned with
timing of SSB~i~ from cell~j~

\- The following maximum number of cells for intra-frequency measurement
within a slot:

Table 23: Maximun numer of cells for intra-frequency measurements

  FR1         FR2
  ----------- ----------
  Nmax = 19   Nmax = 9

[For combined measurement and search:]{.underline}

To obtain combined neighboring cell measurement and search power, add
the difference between full neighboring cell search state power and
SSB/CSI-RS proc. state power to the neighboring cell measurement power,
as shown below:

Table 24: UE power consumption of the combined neighbor cell
measurements and cell search

  N: Number of cells for intra-frequency measurement & search   Synchronous case   Asynchronous case         
  ------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ------------------- ----- -----
                                                                FR1                FR2                 FR1   FR2
  N=8                                                           200                320                 220   380
  N=4                                                           170                290                 190   350

#### 8.1.4.2 For inter-frequency measurement

The inter-frequency measurement is represented as function of the number
of frequency layers:

UE needs to monitor *Nf* frequency layers within a measurement gap.

$E3 = \left( \sum_{i = 0}^{\text{Nf} - 1}E_{i} \right) + \text{Et} \bullet \left( \text{Nf} + 1 \right)$

Where

*- Ei* is either P~fr1~\*Ns (for FR1) or P~fr2~\*Ns (for FR2) for each
frequency layer *i*

*- Ns* is the number of slot over which measurements (for each frequency
layer *i*) are carried out

*- Nf* is the number of frequency layers measured

*- Et = Pt \* Tt*, where

*- Pt* is the switching power consumption

\- Assume micro sleep power for Pt

\- Tt is 0.5ms for FR1 and 0.25ms for FR2 (from RAN4)

It can be simplified to the following if Ei is same across frequency
layers (i.e. *Ei = E* for all i).

E3 = E\*Nf + Et\*(Nf+1)

Note: RAN4 requirement assumes only one frequency layer per measurement
gap.

**For full neighboring cell search:**

The baseline neighbor cell search power is independent of the number of
cells on the first order and can be approximated as:

Table 8: UE power consumption of neighboring cell search

  FR1   FR2
  ----- -----
  150   270

\- It is expressed as the power averaged over a slot during which search
is performed.

8.2 Simulation assumptions
--------------------------

**Deployment scenarios**

\- Dense urban

\- Single layer

\- Additional deployment scenarios to be considered

\- Indoor hotspot

\- Rural macro

\- Note: For RRM measurement evaluation, UE power consumption
contributed by inter-frequency and/or inter-RAT measurement can be
considered.

**Performance metrics**

\- UE power saving gain - percentage of power consumption reduction of
the proposed power saving scheme from the baseline scheme

\- FFS: For the case multiple applications are evaluated, whether power
consumption is the overall DoU power across the applications

\- System performance

\- Latency

\- Scheduling delay

\- User throughput

\- System throughput and/or resource utilization/overhead (if
applicable) should be reported as the result of the evaluation, in
addition to power saving gain.

\- If a new signal/channel is introduced, the performance metrics
include

\- Performance

\- Complexity

\- Overhead for reception of the signal/channel

\- If the new signal is used for detection, the performance metrics
include

\- False alarm rate

\- Miss-detection rate

**Link level simulation assumptions:**

\- Simulation assumptions as specified in Table A1.5-1 in TR38.802 \[4\]
should be the basis for link-level simulation evaluation.

\- Antenna configuration may use IMT-2020 as reference. The evaluation
results should also include the antenna configuration if it is different
from the reference antenna configuration,

\- For LLS simulation on power saving signal detection performance, at
least the following SINR values should be evaluated: -6dB, 3dB, 20dB.

**System level simulation assumptions:**

\- Simulation assumptions as specified in Table A2.1-1 in TR38.802 \[4\]
should be the basis for system-level simulation evaluation.

\- Antenna configuration may use IMT-2020 as reference. The evaluation
results should also include the antenna configuration if it is different
from the reference antenna configuration,

\- It is clarified that user throughput measured from system level
simulation does not preclude user perceived throughput taking into
account TCP slow start if applicable

\- For system level impact evaluation, IMT-2020 simulation assumptions
can be adopted.

\- For system level simulation, whether to apply DRX depends on the
particular power saving proposal being evaluated and the purpose of the
simulation. Whether DRX is not applied in the simulation should be
identified along with the evaluation results

\- For reducing simulation time for system level simulation, scaling of
the bandwidth and packet size of the traffic model can be considered
(e.g. factor of 1/5). Companies to report the scale factor used, if any.

\- For system level simulation, at least assume that the traffic model
is FTP model 3 with 0.5Mbyte payload and mean inter-arrival time of 200
milliseconds

\- The mean inter-arrival time can be adjusted to achieve different cell
loading scenarios.

\- Note: Other variations including different traffic models are not
precluded

\- The same traffic model settings should be used across all users.

**System Configurations:**

**Reference DRX configurations:**

\- C-DRX cycle 320msec, inactivity timer {200, 80} msec

\- FR1 On duration: 10 msec

\- FR2 On duration: 5 msec

\- C-DRX cycle 160msec, inactivity timer {100, 40} msec

\- FR1 On duration: 8 msec

\- FR2 On duration: 4 msec

\- C-DRX cycle 40msec, inactivity timer {25, 10} msec

\- FR1 On duration: 4 msec

\- FR2 On duration: 2 msec

\- I-DRX cycle 1.28 sec

\- Group paging rate (for a PO): 10%

\- P-RNTI is detected but PDSCH decoding results in no match

\- Note: Statistics for the matching case may be further considered
based on use case

\- Note: The selection and reporting of the settings for short DRX
cycle, short DRX cycle timer, drx-RetransmissionTimerDL,
drx-RetransmissionTimerUL, drx-HARQ-RTT-TimerDL, and/or
drx-HARQ-RTT-TimerUL should be included in the results of the UE power
saving scheme

**Traffic model used for the UE power saving scheme evaluation**

\- Applications with the traffic model for the evaluation of the UE
power saving scheme

\- FTP - FTP model 3

\- Other bursty traffic arrival models can be considered

\- Web-browsing

\- Video streaming

\- Instant messaging

\- VoIP

\- Gaming

\- Background app sync

For FTP, instant messaging, and VoIP application, the following traffic
models and DRX configuration should be included for evaluation:

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | FTP traffic    | Instant        | VoIP           |
|                |                | messaging      |                |
+================+================+================+================+
| Model          | FTP model 3    | FTP model 3    | As defined in  |
|                |                |                | R1-070674.     |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Assume max two |
|                |                |                | packets        |
|                |                |                | bundled.       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Packet size    | 0.5 Mbytes     | 0.1 Mbytes     |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Mean           | 200 ms         | 2 sec          |                |
| inter-arrival  |                |                |                |
| time           |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| DRX setting    | Period = 160   | Period = 320   | Period = 40 ms |
|                | ms             | ms             |                |
|                |                |                | Inactivity     |
|                | Inactivity     | Inactivity     | timer = 10 ms  |
|                | timer = 100 ms | timer = 80 ms  |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

Note: For ON duration setting, following reference DRX configurations as
previously agreed.

\- For web-browsing, video streaming, and gaming applications, the
traffic models and the delay requirements defined in R1-070674 can be
used in the evaluation. The parameters (e.g. packet size) may be updated
to be in line with EMBB traffic requirements.

\- For background app sync application, for power consumption evaluation
purpose, it can be assumed that idle mode operations (inclusive of page
detection, RRM, deep sleep and transition overhead) contributes to X% of
the use case power. The remaining portion is contributed by intermittent
RRC connections due to background activities (FFS: value of X)

\- Companies should report the assumptions made in the evaluation

**Evaluation methodology of the UE power saving schemes:**

\- Numerical analysis, system level simulation, and link level
simulation are included as evaluation methods for power saving
proposals. At least one of the methods should be selected and used for
evaluation of a specific power saving proposal.

\- FFS: The criteria for selection of the methods

For power evaluation,

\- For evaluation of DRX scenarios, the RRC release timer is set to
infinity to ensure C-DRX and I-DRX cases are treated separately.

\- Power consumption for channel/time/frequency and beam tracking
operations should be taken into account.

**Calibrations:**

For the purpose of basic calibration of traffic modeling, FTP model 3
(use 0.1 Mbytes packet size, mean inter-arrival time 200msec) and VoIP
model (as defined in R1-070674) should be used to generate time
distribution for different power states, for the following scenarios

1\) No C-DRX configured

\- For both VoIP and FTP

2\) C-DRX cycle 40msec for VoIP

\- 10 msec inactivity timer

\- Assume max two packets bundled

3\) C-DRX cycle 160msec for FTP

\- 100 msec inactivity timer

The time distribution for different power states shall be reported (e.g.
x% in PDCCH-only, y% in PDCCH+PDSCH, z% in micro sleep, etc), as a
result of the calibration exercise.

The following simplifying assumptions can be made:

\- Power modelling reference configuration for FR1

\- Peak throughput. 100MHz

\- DL BWP. 10-symbol PDSCH (one symbol occupied by DMRS)

\- Capable of carrying 868584 information bits per slot (Note: a packet
can fit within a PDSCH transmission)

\- All packets can be successfully decoded on the first transmission

\- No HARQ retransmission

\- No UL slot

\- Single user

\- Short DRX is not configured.

Calibration results

  Traffic & configuration   Power States   HW \[6\] \[98\]   Vivo \[7\]   MTK \[8\]   ZTE \[15\]   Intel \[14\]   LGE \[9\]   CATT \[10\]   SS \[11\]   E/// \[12\] \[50\]   QCOM \[13\]   OPPO \[42\]   Sony\[44\]   Nokia \[51\]   Apple \[68\]
  ------------------------- -------------- ----------------- ------------ ----------- ------------ -------------- ----------- ------------- ----------- -------------------- ------------- ------------- ------------ -------------- --------------
  FTP, w/o C-DRX            PDCCH only     99.79%            99.75%       99.75%      99.73%       99.75%         99.75%      99.71%        99.75%      99.80%               99.75%        99.74%        99.75%       99.75%         99.75%
                            PDCCH+PDSCH     0.21%            0.25%        0.25%       0.27%        0.25%          0.25%       0.29%         0.25%       0.20%                0.25%         0.26%         0.25%        0.25%          0.25%
                            Micro sleep     0.00%            0.00%        0.00%        0.00%       0.00%          0.00%       0.00%         0.00%       0.00%                0.00%         0.00%         0.00%        0.00%          0.00%
                            Light sleep     0.00%            0.00%        0.00%        0.00%       0.00%          0.00%       0.00%         0.00%       0.00%                0.00%         0.00%         0.00%        0.00%          0.00%
                            Deep sleep      0.00%            0.00%        0.00%        0.00%       0.00%          0.00%       0.00%         0.00%       0.00%                0.00%         0.00%         0.00%        0.00%          0.00%
  FTP, w/ C-DRX             PDCCH only     34.96%            34.68%       34.62%      35%          34.96%         35.27%      37.92%        32.85%      38.20%               35.01%        35.65%        34.50%       34.95%         35.44%
                            PDCCH+PDSCH    0.21%             0.25%        0.20%       0.27%        0.25%          0.26%       0.29%         0.20%       0.20%                0.25%         0.293%        0.25%        0.25%          0.21%
                            Micro sleep    0.02%             0.01%        0.02%       0.03%        0.02%          0.02%       0.00%         0.01%       0%                   0.01%         0.0248%       0.02%        0.02%          0.04%
                            Light sleep    0.15%             0.13%        0.17%       0%           0.15%          0.17%       0.00%         0.14%       0%                   0.15%         0.124%        0.15%        0.14%          0.07%
                            Deep sleep     64.66%            64.94%       64.99%      65%          64.62%         64.28%      61.85%        66.80%      61.60%               64.58%        63.9%         65.09%       64.64%         64.57%
  VoIP, w/o C-DRX           PDCCH only      98.92%           98.59%       98.56%      98.43%       98.75%                     98.70%        98.46%      98.50%               98.60%                      98.73%                      98.7%
                            PDCCH+PDSCH     1.08%            1.41%        1.44%       1.57%        1.25%                      1.31%         1.54%       1.50%                1.40%                       1.27%                       1.3%
                            Micro sleep     0.00%            0.00%        0.00%        0.00%       0.00%                      0.00%         0.00%       0.00%                0.00%                       0.00%                       0.00%
                            Light sleep     0.00%            0.00%        0.00%        0.00%       0.00%                      0.00%         0.00%       0.00%                0.00%                       0.00%                       0.00%
                            Deep sleep      0.00%            0.00%        0.00%        0.00%       0.00%                      0.00%         0.00%       0.00%                0.00%                       0.00%                       0.00%
  VoIP, w/ C-DRX            PDCCH only     22.09%            22.40%       21.46%      19.31%       18.72%                     14.43%        20.16%      32.40%               22.31%                      20.20%                      20.36%
                            PDCCH+PDSCH    1.08%             1.09%        1.09%       0.78%        1.25%                      0.40%         1.96%       1.50%                1.08%                       0.96%                       0.84%
                            Micro sleep    0.00%             0.00%        0.00%        0.00%       0.00%                      0.00%         0.00%       0.00%                0.00%                       0.00%                       0.00%
                            Light sleep    1.37%             0.61%        0.41%        0.00%       0.00%                      0.00%         0.34%       26.50%               0.54%                       0.83%                       0.00%
                            Deep sleep     75.45%            75.90%       77.04%      79.92%       80.03%                     85.16%        77.54%      39.60%               76.07%                      78.02%                      78.78%

#########  Annex \<X\>: Change history

  -------------------- ------------- ------------ -------- --------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                                                 
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**     **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                                                                   **New version**
  2018-10              RAN1\#94bis   R1-1811896                                TR Skeleton                                                                                           0.0.0
  2018-11              RAN1\#95      R1-1812639                                TR update after RAN1\#94bis                                                                           0.0.1
  2018-12              RAN1\#95      R1-1814387                                TR update after RAN1\#95                                                                              0.1.0
  2019-02              RAN1\#96      R1-1902023                                TR update after RAN1 AH\#1901                                                                         0.1.1
  2019-03              RAN1\#96      R1-1903832                                TR update after RAN1\#96 and RAN2\#105 - For information to plenary in RP-190574, inc. MCC clean-up   1.0.0
  2019-05              RAN1\#97      R1-1907967                                TR update after RAN2\#105bis and RAN2\#106 -- for presentation to plenary for final approval of TR    2.0.0
  2019-06              RAN\#84                                                 Specification under change control (Release 16) further to RAN approval of RP-191083                  16.0.0
  -------------------- ------------- ------------ -------- --------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
