3GPP TR 38.886 V16.3.0 (2021-03)

Technical Report

3rd Generation Partnership Project;

Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;

V2X Services based on NR;

User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception;

(Release 16)

![5G-logo\_175px](media/image1.jpeg){width="1.31875in"
height="0.9201388888888888in"}
![3GPP-logo\_web](media/image2.png){width="1.7791666666666666in"
height="1.0368055555555555in"}

The present document has been developed within the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP ^TM^) and may be further elaborated for the
purposes of 3GPP.\
The present document has not been subject to any approval process by the
3GPP Organizational Partners and shall not be implemented.\
This Report is provided for future development work within 3GPP only.
The Organizational Partners accept no liability for any use of this
Specification.\
Specifications and Reports for implementation of the 3GPP ^TM^ system
should be obtained via the 3GPP Organizational Partners\' Publications
Offices.

> Keywords
>
> \<NR V2X (vehicle-to-everything), Sidelink\>
>
> ***3GPP***
>
> Postal address
>
> 3GPP support office address
>
> 650 Route des Lucioles - Sophia Antipolis
>
> Valbonne - FRANCE
>
> Tel.: +33 4 92 94 42 00 Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16
>
> Internet
>
> http://www.3gpp.org

***Copyright Notification***

No part may be reproduced except as authorized by written permission.\
The copyright and the foregoing restriction extend to reproduction in
all media.

© 2021, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI,
TTA, TTC).

All rights reserved.

UMTS™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its members

3GPP™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners\
LTE™ is a Trade Mark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members
and of the 3GPP Organizational Partners

GSM® and the GSM logo are registered and owned by the GSM Association

 Contents {#contents .TT}
========

Foreword 6

1 Scope 7

2 References 7

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 8

3.1 Definitions 8

3.2 Symbols 8

3.3 Abbreviations 8

4 Background 9

4.1 Justification 9

4.2 Objective 10

4.3 V2X operating scenarios 11

4.3.1 Operation Aspects 11

5 Evaluation of adjacent channel co-existence 14

5.1 General 14

5.1.1 Adjacent channel coexistence scenarios 14

5.2 Co-existence simulation assumptions 15

5.2.1 Co-existence simulation parameters in ITS spectrum 15

5.2.1.1 Layout model 15

5.2.1.2 Simulation parameters 17

5.2.1.3 ACLR and ACS 17

5.2.2 Coexistence simulation parameters in FR1 FDD licensed spectrum 19

5.2.2.1 Network layout model 19

5.2.2.2 Simulation parameters 21

5.2.2.3 ACLR and ACS 21

5.2.2.4 Power control 21

5.2.3 Coexistence simulation parameters in FR1 TDD licensed spectrum 22

5.2.3.1 Network layout model 22

5.2.3.2 Simulation parameters 24

5.2.3.3 ACLR and ACS 24

5.2.3.4 Power control 24

5.2.4 PRR performance metrics for NR V2X coexistence simulation 25

5.3 Coexistence simulation results 25

5.3.1 Coexistence simulation results in ITS spectrum 25

5.3.1.1 Huawei simulation results for Case1, Case2, Case3 and Case 4 25

5.3.1.2 LG simulation results for Case1, Case2, Case3 and Case 4 31

5.3.1.3 Qualcomm simulation results for Case3 and Case4 34

5.3.2 Coexistence simulation results in licensed spectrum for FR1 36

5.3.2.1 Huawei simulation results for Case5 and Case 6 36

5.3.2.2 LG simulation results for Case5 and Case 6 40

5.3.3 Coexistence simulation results in licensed spectrum for FR2 41

5.4 Conclusion of V2X coexistence evaluations 42

6 Evaluation of In-device Coexistence 43

6.1 In-device coexistence scenarios 43

6.2 UE architecture considerations 43

6.3 Switching time analysis 43

7 Operating bands and channel arrangement 44

7.1 Operating bands 44

7.1.1 Operating bands in FR1 44

7.1.2 Operating bands in FR2 44

7.1.3 Operating bands for inter-band con-current operation in FR1 44

7.2 Channel bandwidth 44

7.2.1 Channel bandwidth in FR1 44

7.2.2 Channel bandwidth in FR2 45

7.2.3 Channel bandwidth for inter-band con-current operation in FR1 45

7.3 Channel arrangement 45

7.3.1 Channel arrangement in FR1 45

7.3.1.1 Channel raster 45

7.3.1.1.1 NR-ARFCN and channel raster 45

7.3.1.1.2 Channel raster to resource element mapping 46

7.3.1.1.3 Channel raster entries for each operating band 46

7.3.1.2 Synchronization raster 46

7.3.2 Channel arrangement in FR2 46

8 Transmitter characteristics 47

8.1 NR V2X UE Tx requirements in FR1 47

8.1.1 Maximum output power for NR V2X UE 47

8.1.2 UE maximum output power reduction 47

8.1.2.1 MPR for Power class 3 V2X UE 49

8.1.3 UE maximum output power with additional requirements 50

8.1.3.1 AMPR for NS\_33 52

8.1.3.2 AMPR for NS\_52 54

8.1.3.3 AMPR for NS\_xx 55

8.1.4 Configured transmitted power for NR V2X UE 56

8.1.5 Minimum output power for NR V2X UE 57

8.1.6 Transmit OFF power NR V2X UE 57

8.1.7 ON/OFF time mask for NR V2X UE 58

8.1.7.1 General time mask for NR V2X UE 58

8.1.7.2 S-SSB time mask 58

8.1.7.3 Additional Time mask for TDM operation between NR SL and LTE SL
at n47 59

8.1.8 Power control for NR V2X UE 59

8.1.8.1 Absolute power tolerance 59

8.1.9 Transmit signal quality for NR V2X UE 60

8.1.9.1 Frequency error 60

8.1.9.2 Transmit modulation quality 60

8.1.9.2.1 Error Vector Magnitude 60

8.1.9.2.2 Carrier leakage 60

8.1.9.2.3 In-band emissions 60

8.1.9.2.4 EVM equalizer spectrum flatness 60

8.1.10 spectrum emission mask for V2X UE 61

8.1.10.1 Additional spectrum emission mask for V2X UE 61

8.1.11 ACLR requirements for V2X UE 61

8.1.12 Spurious emission for V2X UE 62

8.1.13 Spurious emission band UE co-existence for V2X UE 62

8.1.14 Transmit intermodulation for NR V2X UE 63

8.2 (Void) 64

9 Receiver characteristics 65

9.1 NR V2X UE Rx requirements in FR1 65

9.1.1 Reference sensitivity power level 65

9.1.2 Maximum input level 66

9.1.3 Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS) 66

9.1.4 Blocking characteristics 67

9.1.4.1 In-band blocking 67

9.1.4.2 Out-of-band blocking 68

9.1.5 Spurious response 69

9.1.6 Intermodulation characteristics 69

9.2 (Void) 70

10 Tx/Rx characteristics of concurrent operation 71

10.1 NR V2X SL operation in 5.9GHz or other potential ITS spectrum and
LTE/NR Uu operation in licensed band for FR1 71

10.1.1 Tx requirements for inter-band con-current NR V2X operation 71

10.1.1.1 Maximum output power 71

10.1.1.2 UE maximum output power reduction 71

10.1.1.3 UE maximum output power with additional requirements 71

10.1.1.4 Configured transmitted power 71

10.1.1.5 UE Minimum output power 72

10.1.1.6 Transmit OFF power 73

10.1.1.7 ON/OFF time mask 73

10.1.1.8 Power control 73

10.1.1.9 Transmit signal quality 73

10.1.1.9.1 Frequency error 73

10.1.1.9.2 Transmit modulation quality 73

10.1.1.10 Spectrum emission mask 74

10.1.1.11 ACLR requirements 74

10.1.1.12 Spurious emission requirements 74

10.1.1.13 Spurious emission band UE co-existence 74

10.1.1.14 Transmit intermodulation 75

10.1.2 Rx requirements for inter-band con-current NR V2X operation 75

10.1.2.1 REFSENS 75

10.1.2.2 Maximum input level 76

10.1.2.3 The other Rx requirements 76

10.2 NR V2X SL operation and LTE/NR Uu operation both in licensed band
for FR1 77

10.2.1 Tx requirements for inter-band con-current V2X operation 77

10.2.1.1 Maximum output power 77

10.2.1.2 UE maximum output power reduction 77

10.2.1.3 UE maximum output power with additional requirements 77

10.2.1.4 Configured transmitted power 77

10.2.1.5 UE Minimum output power 78

10.2.1.6 Transmit OFF power 78

10.2.1.7 ON/OFF time mask 78

10.2.1.8 Power control 78

10.2.1.9 Transmit signal quality 78

10.2.1.9.1 Frequency error 78

10.2.1.9.2 Transmit modulation quality 78

10.2.1.10 Spectrum emission mask 79

10.2.1.11 ACLR requirements 79

10.2.1.12 Spurious emission requirements 79

10.2.1.13 Spurious emission band UE co-existence 79

10.2.1.14 Transmit intermodulation 80

10.2.2 Rx requirements for inter-band con-current NR V2X operation 80

10.2.2.1 REFSENS 80

10.2.2.1a Reference sensitivity exception due to UL harmonic problem 81

10.2.2.2 Maximum input level 82

10.2.2.3 The other Rx requirements 82

10.3 NR V2X SL operation in 5.9GHz or other potential ITS spectrum and
NR Uu operation in licensed bands for FR2 83

10.4 NR V2X SL operation and NR Uu operation both in licensed bands for
FR2 83

11 Conclusion and recommendations 84

Annex A Link level simulation mapping model for NR V2X 85

Annex B (Informative): Change history 87

 Foreword
========

This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

 

1 Scope
=======

The present document is a technical report for NR V2X services with
sidelink operation in Rel-16. The purpose is to specify radio solutions
that are necessary for NR to support advanced V2X services (except the
remote driving use case which was studied in TR 38.824) based on the
study outcome captured in TR 38.885.

1\. NR sidelink: Specify NR sidelink solutions necessary to support
sidelink unicast, sidelink groupcast, and sidelink broadcast for V2X
services, considering **in-network coverage, out-of-network coverage,
and partial network coverage**.

The solutions should cover both the operating scenario where the
carrier(s) is/are dedicated to V2X services and the operating scenario
where the carrier(s) is/are licensed spectrum and also used for NR
Uu/LTE Uu operation.

NR sidelink design starts with frequencies in FR1, and NR sidelink in
FR2 is supported by applying the design for FR1 and PT-RS to the
numerologies agreed for FR2. No FR2 specific optimization is supported
in this WI except PT-RS. No beam management is supported in this work.

For the scenarios of NR sidelink carrier, this work will consider a
single carrier for the NR sidelink transmission and reception.

In this work, 2Rx antennas as well as 4Rx antennas are supported. The
full range of speeds defined in SA1 (TS 22.186) needs to be supported in
FR1.

2\. Specify support for NR Uu to provide control for LTE sidelink

3\. Specify UE report to assist gNB scheduling

**4. Specify support for QoS management**

This Technical Report focus on NR sidelink UE Tx/Rx RF requirements and
contains the adjacent channel coexistence evaluation results for NR
sidelink operation at both licensed bands and the dedicated ITS spectrum
for V2X service.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TR 30.007: \"Guideline on WI/SI for new Operating Bands\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 38.101-2: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 2: Range 2 Standalone\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 38.101-3: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 3: Range 1 and Range 2 Interworking operation with other
radios\".

\[6\] R4-1910400, "TP on adjacent channel co-existence scenarios and
parameters for NR V2X service on FR1"

\[7\] R4-1911489, " \[V2X\] NR V2X coexistence simulation results for
ITS spectrum case1 and case3"

\[8\] R4-1911490, " \[V2X\] NR V2X coexistence simulation results for
ITS spectrum case2 and case4"

\[9\] R4-1910402, "Initial coexistence simulation results of NR V2X for
ITS band"

\[10\] R4-1912473, "NR V2X RF Coex Simulation results"

\[11\] R4-1911491, "\[V2X\] NR V2X coexistence simulation results for
licensed band"

\[12\] R4-1912865, "Coexistence simulation results in licensed bands"

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

3.2 Symbols
-----------

For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:

3.3 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio

ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity

AGC Automatic Gain Control

A-MPR Additional Maximum Power Reduction

BLER BLock Error Rate

BS Base Station

CBW Channel Bandwidth

CDF Cumulative Distribution Function

CP-OFDM Cyclic Prefix-OFDM

DMRS Demodulation Reference Signal

DSRC Dedicated Short-Range Communications

EIRP Equivalent Isotropically Radiated Power

EVM Error Vector Magnitude

FDD Frequency Division Duplex

FDM Frequency Division Multiplexing

FR1 Frequency Range 1

FR2 Frequency Range 2

ITS Intelligent Transportation System

LDPC Low Density Parity Check

LTE Long Term Evolution

LOS Line-Of-Sight

MPR Maximum Power Reduction

NF Noise Figure

NLOS Non-Line-Of-Sight

NR New Radio

OLPC Open Loop Power Control

PC Power Control

PRB Physical Resource Block

PRR Package Reception Ratio

PSCCH Physical Sidelink Control CHannel

PSSCH Physical Sidelink Shared CHannel

REFSENS Reference Sensitivity

RF Radio Frequency

SCS Sub-Carrier Spacing

SINR Signal to Interference plus Noise Ratio

SL Sidelink

SNR Signal-to-Noise Ratio

TDD Time Division Duplex

TDM Time Division Multiplexing

UE User Equipment

UL Uplink

V2V Vehicle to Vehicle

V2X Vehicle to Everything

4 Background
============

4.1 Justification
-----------------

To expand the 3GPP platform to the automotive industry, the initial
standard on support of V2V services was completed in September 2016.
Enhancements that focusing on additional V2X operation scenarios
leveraging the cellular infrastructure, are completed in March 2017 as
3GPP V2X phase 1 for inclusion in Release 14 LTE.  In Rel-14 LTE V2X, a
basic set of requirements for V2X service in TS 22.185 derived from TR
22.885 has been supported, which are considered sufficient for basic
road safety service. Vehicles (i.e., UEs supporting V2X applications)
can exchange their own status information through sidelink, such as
position, speed and heading, with other nearby vehicles, infrastructure
nodes and/or pedestrians.   

3GPP V2X phase 2 in Rel-15 introduces a number of new features in
sidelink, including: carrier aggregation, high order modulation, latency
reduction, and feasibility study on both transmission diversity and
short TTI in sidelink.  All these enhanced features in 3GPP V2X phase 2
are primary base on LTE and require co-existing with Rel-14 UE in same
resource pool.

SA1 has completed enhancement of 3GPP support for V2X services (eV2X
services) in Rel-15. The consolidated requirements for each use case
group (see below) are captured in TR 22.886, and a set of the normative
requirements are defined in TS 22.186 in Rel-15.

SA1 has identified 25 use cases for advanced V2X services and they are
categorized into four use case groups: vehicles platooning, extended
sensors, advanced driving and remote driving. The detailed description
of each use case group is provided as below.

**Vehicles Platooning** enables the vehicles to dynamically form a group
travelling together. All the vehicles in the platoon receive periodic
data from the leading vehicle, in order to carry on platoon operations.
This information allows the distance between vehicles to become
extremely small, i.e., the gap distance translated to time can be very
low (sub second). Platooning applications may allow the vehicles
following to be autonomously driven.

**Extended Sensors** enables the exchange of raw or processed data
gathered through local sensors or live video data among vehicles, RSUs,
devices of pedestrians and V2X application servers. The vehicles can
enhance the perception of their environment beyond what their own
sensors can detect and have a more holistic view of the local situation.

**Advanced Driving** enables semi-automated or fully-automated driving.
Longer inter-vehicle distance is assumed. Each vehicle and/or RSU shares
data obtained from its local sensors with vehicles in proximity, thus
allowing vehicles to coordinate their trajectories or maneuvers. In
addition, each vehicle shares its driving intention with vehicles in
proximity. The benefits of this use case group are safer traveling,
collision avoidance, and improved traffic efficiency.

**Remote Driving** enables a remote driver or a V2X application to
operate a remote vehicle for those passengers who cannot drive
themselves or a remote vehicle located in dangerous environments. For a
case where variation is limited and routes are predictable, such as
public transportation, driving based on cloud computing can be used. In
addition, access to cloud-based back-end service platform can be
considered for this use case group.

SA1 has considered both LTE and NR for the candidates of 3GPP RATs in
supporting eV2X.

The SA2 study has been progressed to identify and evaluate potential
architecture enhancements of EPS and 5G System design needed to support
advanced V2X services identified in TR 22.886, based on vehicular
services requirements defined in SA1 V2X (TS 22.185) and eV2X (TS
22.186) and determine which of the solutions can proceed to normative
specifications. SA2 has completed the study and started the normative
work on the architecture solutions for V2X.

TSG RAN has already agreed in TR 38.913 that it is not intended for NR
V2X to replace the services offered by LTE V2X. Instead, the NR V2X
shall complement LTE V2X for advanced V2X services and support
interworking with LTE V2X. At least from 3GPP RAN technology development
standpoint, the focus and scope of NR V2X is to target advanced V2X use
cases. However, this does not imply that NR V2X cannot support basic
safety use cases. It is clearly up to the regional regulators and the
stakeholders involved (i.e. Car OEMs and automotive ecosystem in
general) to decide on the technology of choice for any service and any
use case.

NR V2X is destined as 3GPP V2X phase 3 and would support advanced V2X
services beyond services supported in LTE Rel-15 V2X.  The advanced V2X
services would require enhanced NR system and new NR sidelink to meet
the stringent requirements.  NR V2X system is expected have a flexible
design in support of services with low latency and high reliability
requirements.  NR system also expects to have higher system capacity and
better coverage. The flexibility of NR sidelink framework would allow
easy extension of NR system to support the future development of further
advanced V2X services and other services. RAN WGs have conducted the
feasibility study on NR V2X, and it was concluded in TR 38.885 that it
is feasible to support advanced V2X services using the technical
solutions identified during the study. It is noted that the study on the
remote driving use case was conducted in TR 38.824. Meanwhile, it was
noted that solutions defined for V2X can also be used for public safety
when the service requirement can be met.

4.2 Objective
-------------

The objective of this work item is to specify radio solutions that are
necessary for NR to support advanced V2X services (except the remote
driving use case which was studied in TR 38.824) based on the study
outcome captured in TR 38.885. RAN4 should focus on the RAN WG4 work
scope in the approved WID \[1\] as below

1\. NR sidelink: Specify NR sidelink solutions necessary to support
sidelink unicast, sidelink groupcast, and sidelink broadcast for V2X
services, considering **in-network coverage, out-of-network coverage,
and partial network coverage**.

Solutions for 'not co-channel' in-device coexistence between LTE and NR
sidelinks

TDM-based solutions as per the study outcome \[RAN1, RAN2, RAN4\]

FDM-based solutions with static power allocation as per the study
outcome \[RAN4\]

This will not consider the case where LTE and NR sidelinks are in the
same frequency band.

No impact to LTE specifications at least from RAN1 and RAN2 perspective.

UE Tx and Rx RF requirement \[RAN4\]

This requirement should ensure

coexistence between sidelink and Uu interface in the same and adjacent
channels in licensed spectrum

coexistence with other V2X technologies in the adjacent channel in ITS
spectrum in 5.9 GHz, without assuming that 5.9 GHz spectrum will be
universally available nor that it will be universally available in
sufficient quantity to support NR V2X advanced use cases

RRM core requirement \[RAN4\]

The solutions should cover both the operating scenario where the
carrier(s) is/are dedicated to V2X services and the operating scenario
where the carrier(s) is/are licensed spectrum and also used for NR
Uu/LTE Uu operation.

NR sidelink design starts with frequencies in FR1, and NR sidelink in
FR2 is supported by applying the design for FR1 and PT-RS to the
numerologies agreed for FR2. No FR2 specific optimization is supported
in this WI except PT-RS. No beam management is supported in this work.

For the scenarios of NR sidelink carrier, this work will consider a
single carrier for the NR sidelink transmission and reception.

In this work, 2Rx antennas as well as 4Rx antennas are supported. The
full range of speeds defined in SA1 (TS 22.186) needs to be supported in
FR1.

It is assumed that any co-channel coexistence requirements and
mechanisms of NR sidelink with non-3GPP technologies will not be defined
by 3GPP.

4.3 V2X operating scenarios
---------------------------

### 4.3.1 Operation Aspects

Scenarios considered by RAN4 for NR V2X sidelink operation are as
follows:

\- (Aspect 1) Operation bands used as test points for evaluation

\- Case 1A: 5.9 GHz (for ITS spectrum)

\- Case 1B: 3.5 GHz (TDD) or 2GHz (FDD) (for licensed bands operation at
FR1)

\- Case 1C: 28 GHz (for licensed bands operation at FR2)

\- (Aspect 2) gNB deployment including the possibility of network
control

\- Case 2A: UE autonomous resource allocation, at least mode 2, based on
semi-statically network-configured/pre-configured radio parameters
including no gNB coverage case.

\- Case 2B: gNB providing more UE specific or/and more dynamic resource
allocation including Mode 1 compared to case 2A.

Within RAN4 for this NR V2X WI, analysis and specification of single
carrier operation is defined as a first priority compare to con-current
operation in Aspect3. (E.g. specify transmission and reception
requirements for ITS spectrum and licensed bands).

> **RAN4 should focus on the 5G V2X UE RF core requirements as 1^st^
> priority**

\- Specify RF core requirements in the ITS spectrum,

\- Specify RF core requirements for NR SL (at n47) and LTE SL (at B47)
as TDM for Tx transmission and simultaneous receptions,

\- Specify RF core requirements for licensed bands in which the entire
band is allocated for SL operation in a region.

\- Sidelink operation in partial bandwidth in licensed band is not
precluded in WI

\- (Aspect 3) Con-current operation

In 5G V2X WI, the multi-carrier V2X with sidelink operation is excluded
in rel-16. Only possible to support the con-current operation for V2X
service between 5G V2X sidelink and LTE/NR Uu operation.

After the single carrier 5G V2X operation with sidelink, RAN4 support
the con-current NR V2X operation will be defined as second priority in
the NR V2X WI.

The expected con-current operation for V2X service support a number of
configurations including the following example band combinations:

\- Inter-band con-current operation:

\- NR V2X SL (at n47) + LTE/NR Uu (at licensed bands)

\- LTE V2X SL (at B47) + NR Uu (at licensed bands)

\- NR V2X SL (at licensed band A) + LTE/NR Uu (at licensed band B)

\- Intra-band con-current operation

\- NR V2X SL (at n47) + LTE V2X SL (at B47): only TDM operation is
allowed

\- NR V2X SL (at licensed bands) + NR/LTE V2X Uu (at licensed bands)

Based on these operating scenarios, following Cases are decribed as
below

Table 4.3.1-1 Con-current operation for NR V2X service

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | CC1 (NR PC5)   | NR/LTE Band    | NR/LTE         |
|                |                | (n47/B47)      | Licensed Band  |
|                | CC2 (NR or     |                | X (Uu V2X)     |
|                | LTE)           | (PC5 V2X)      |                |
|                |                |                | e.g.) B3/B8... |
+================+================+================+================+
| Inter-band     | NR/LTE Band    | \- N/A         | \- Case 3A: NR |
| Con-current    | (n47/B47)      |                | n47 (PC5) +NR  |
| operation      |                |                | Band X(Uu)     |
|                | (PC5 V2X)      |                |                |
|                |                |                | \- Case 3A: NR |
|                |                |                | n47 (PC5) +LTE |
|                |                |                | Band X(Uu)     |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | \- Case 3B:    |
|                |                |                | LTE Band 47    |
|                |                |                | (PC5) + NR     |
|                |                |                | Band X(Uu)     |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | NR Licensed    | \- N/A in      | \- Case 3C: NR |
|                | band Y         | rel-16: NR     | Band Y(PC5) +  |
|                |                | Band Y(PC5) +  | NR Band X(Uu)  |
|                | (PC5 V2X)      | NR n47 (PC5)   |                |
|                |                |                | \- Case 3C: NR |
|                |                | \- N/A in      | Band Y(PC5) +  |
|                |                | rel-16: NR     | LTE Band X(Uu) |
|                |                | Band Y(PC5) +  |                |
|                |                | LTE B47 (PC5)  |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Intra-band     | NR Band (n47)  | \- N/A in      | N/A            |
| Con-current    |                | rel-16: NR n47 |                |
| operation      | (PC5 V2X)      | (PC5) + NR n47 |                |
|                |                | (PC5)          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | NR Licensed    | \- N/A         | \- Case 3E: NR |
|                | band X         |                | Band X(PC5)    |
|                |                |                | +NR Band X(Uu) |
|                | (PC5 V2X)      |                |                |
|                |                |                | \- Case 3E: NR |
|                |                |                | Band X(PC5) +  |
|                |                |                | LTE Band X(Uu) |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

Based on the Table 4.3.1-1, RAN4 analyze on the con-current operations
with multi-carrier as 2^nd^ priority in V2X WI since the single carrier
SL operation should be specified for NR V2X service with sidelink or
licensed band in rel-16. The con-current operation of V2X service will
be reflected the request of preferred band combinations from interested
operator.

The con-current operation between 5G NR V2X SL and other system can be
treated as 2^nd^ priority. And 2^nd^ & 3^rd^ priority are proposed as
following for con-current operation.

\- 2^nd^ priority in con-current operation:

\- Case 3A: NR V2X PC5 (at n47) + NR/LTE Uu (at licensed bands) on
inter-band con-current operation

NR V2X PC5 (at n47) + NR Uu(at licensed bands)

NR V2X PC5 (at n47) + LTE Uu(at licensed bands)

\- Case 3C: NR V2X SL (at licensed band Y) + LTE/NR Uu (at licensed band
X) on inter-band con-current operation

NR V2X PC5 (at licensed band Y) + NR Uu(at licensed band X)

NR V2X PC5 (at licensed band Y) + LTE Uu(at licensed band X)

\- 3^rd^ Priority for con-current operation (without ITS spectrum):

\- Case 3B: LTE Band 47 PC5 + NR Uu (at licensed bands) : need to study
on RAN4 impact when NR Uu control the LTE sidelink operation since the
agreed WID did not reflect RAN4 impact

\- Case 3E: NR V2X PC5 (at licensed band) + LTE/NR Uu (at licensed band)
on intra-band combination

\- NR V2X PC5 (at licensed band X) + LTE Uu (at licensed band X)

\- NR V2X PC5 (at licensed band X) + NR Uu (at licensed band X)

5 Evaluation of adjacent channel co-existence
=============================================

5.1 General
-----------

In this section, the adjacent channel system coexistence evaluation was
studied for NR V2X services. The operating scenarios include both the
cases where the carrier is dedicated to NR V2X service in ITS spectrum
(e.g. 5.9GHz) and cases where the carrier is deployed for NR V2X service
in licensed spectrum. For the ITS spectrum (e.g. 5.9GHz), the
coexistence evaluation include LTE based V2V operation and/or DSRC/IEEE
802.11p operation on the adjacent carrier of NR V2X. For the licensed
carrier, the coexistence evaluation include LTE or NR Uu on the adjacent
carrier of NR V2X.

### 5.1.1 Adjacent channel coexistence scenarios

The adjacent channel coexistence evaluation scenarios for NR V2X service
are shown in Table 5.1.1-1

Table 5.1.1-1: The adjacent channel coexistence scenarios for NR V2X
service

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| NR V2X operating     | Deployment scenarios |                      |
| frequency            |                      |                      |
|                      | (                    |                      |
|                      | Aggressor-to-Victim) |                      |
+======================+======================+======================+
| FR1                  | V2X service at ITS   | Case1: NR V2X        |
|                      | spectrum             | UE-to-DSRC UE        |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | (sidelink: 5.9GHz)   | Case2: DSRC UE-to-NR |
|                      |                      | V2X UE               |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Case3: NR V2X        |
|                      |                      | UE-to-LTE V2X UE     |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Case4: LTE V2X       |
|                      |                      | UE-to-NR V2X UE      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | V2X service at       | Case5: NR V2X        |
|                      | licensed bands       | UE-to-NR Uu BS       |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | (TDD: 3.5GHz)        | Case6: NR Uu         |
|                      |                      | UE-to-NR V2X UE      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | V2X service at       | Case7: NR V2X        |
|                      | licensed bands       | UE-to-LTE Uu BS      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | (FDD: 2GHz)          | Case8: LTE Uu        |
|                      |                      | UE-to-NR V2X UE      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| FR2                  | V2X service at       | Case9: NR V2X        |
|                      | licensed bands       | UE-to-NR Uu BS       |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Case10: NR Uu        |
|                      |                      | UE-to-NR V2X UE      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

> Basic simulation parameters are below

\- Deployment scenarios: Urban Manhattan grid model

\- Simulation Block Size :

\- Urban : Manhattan grid model: 3\*433m, 3\*250m

\- RAN1 dependent parameter

\- Power control scheme, RAN4 can revisit the PC according to RAN1
decision, but following is initial

\- In licensed spectrum, OLPC in TR36.786 is used or no power control is
used

\- In ITS spectrum, worst case of no power control is used

\- For licensed band, NR SL operation in Uplink band in FDD, UL
opportunity in TDD is considered.

\- For SINR calculation in partial overlapping between aggressor and
victim, worst case SINR should be considered.

The details of the deployment scenarios are presented in the following
clauses.

5.2 Co-existence simulation assumptions
---------------------------------------

### 5.2.1 Co-existence simulation parameters in ITS spectrum

#### 5.2.1.1 Layout model

![](media/image3.emf){width="5.86956583552056in"
height="6.477635608048994in"}

Figure 5.2.1.1-1 Network layout model for NR V2X coexistence simulation
in ITS spectrum

Table 5.2.1-1: Simulation layout model in ITS spectrum

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Parameter                        | Value                            |
+==================================+==================================+
| carrier frequency                | 5.9GHz                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Deployment scenarios             | Urban Mahathan grid model        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Simulation Block Size            | 3\*433m, 3\*250m                 |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Velocity of vehicles             | 15km/h or 60km/h                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Note1: Fixed location will be    |
|                                  | considered for adjacent channel  |
|                                  | coexistence evaluation.          |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Note2: Velocity is only used to  |
|                                  | decide the UE's density.         |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Pathloss model for               | +--------+--------+--------+     |
|                                  | | LO     | Pa     | Shadow |     |
| \- DSRC UE-to-DSRC UE            | | S/NLOS | thloss | fading |     |
|                                  | | /NLOSv | \[dB\] | std    |     |
| \- LTE V2X UE-to-LTE V2X UE      | |        |        | \[dB\] |     |
|                                  | +========+========+========+     |
| \- NR V2X UE-to-DSRC UE          | | LOS,   | For    | σ~SF~  |     |
|                                  | | NLOSv  | H      | = 3    |     |
| \- DSRC UE-to-NR V2X UE          | |        | ighway |        |     |
|                                  | |        | case,  |        |     |
| \- NR V2X UE-to-LTE V2X UE       | |        |        |        |     |
|                                  | |        | PL =   |        |     |
| \- LTE V2X UE-to-NR V2X UE       | |        | 32.4 + |        |     |
|                                  | |        | 20     |        |     |
|                                  | |        | lo     |        |     |
|                                  | |        | g~10~( |        |     |
|                                  | |        | d~3D~) |        |     |
|                                  | |        | + 20   |        |     |
|                                  | |        | l      |        |     |
|                                  | |        | og~10~ |        |     |
|                                  | |        | (f~c~) |        |     |
|                                  | |        |        |        |     |
|                                  | |        | For    |        |     |
|                                  | |        | Urban  |        |     |
|                                  | |        | case,  |        |     |
|                                  | |        |        |        |     |
|                                  | |        | PL=    |        |     |
|                                  | |        | 38.77  |        |     |
|                                  | |        | + 16.7 |        |     |
|                                  | |        | lo     |        |     |
|                                  | |        | g~10~( |        |     |
|                                  | |        | d~3D~) |        |     |
|                                  | |        | + 18.2 |        |     |
|                                  | |        | l      |        |     |
|                                  | |        | og~10~ |        |     |
|                                  | |        | (f~c~) |        |     |
|                                  | +--------+--------+--------+     |
|                                  | | NLOS   | PL=    | σ~SF~  |     |
|                                  | |        | 36.85  | = 4    |     |
|                                  | |        | + 30   |        |     |
|                                  | |        | lo     |        |     |
|                                  | |        | g~10~( |        |     |
|                                  | |        | d~3D~) |        |     |
|                                  | |        | + 18.9 |        |     |
|                                  | |        | l      |        |     |
|                                  | |        | og~10~ |        |     |
|                                  | |        | (f~c~) |        |     |
|                                  | +--------+--------+--------+     |
|                                  | | Note   |        |        |     |
|                                  | | 1:     |        |        |     |
|                                  | | f~c~   |        |        |     |
|                                  | | d      |        |        |     |
|                                  | | enotes |        |        |     |
|                                  | | the    |        |        |     |
|                                  | | center |        |        |     |
|                                  | | fre    |        |        |     |
|                                  | | quency |        |        |     |
|                                  | | in GHz |        |        |     |
|                                  | | and    |        |        |     |
|                                  | | d~3D~  |        |        |     |
|                                  | | d      |        |        |     |
|                                  | | enotes |        |        |     |
|                                  | | the    |        |        |     |
|                                  | | Euc    |        |        |     |
|                                  | | lidean |        |        |     |
|                                  | | di     |        |        |     |
|                                  | | stance |        |        |     |
|                                  | | b      |        |        |     |
|                                  | | etween |        |        |     |
|                                  | | TX and |        |        |     |
|                                  | | RX in  |        |        |     |
|                                  | | 3D     |        |        |     |
|                                  | | space  |        |        |     |
|                                  | | in     |        |        |     |
|                                  | | m      |        |        |     |
|                                  | | eters. |        |        |     |
|                                  | |        |        |        |     |
|                                  | | Note   |        |        |     |
|                                  | | 2: The |        |        |     |
|                                  | | model  |        |        |     |
|                                  | | for    |        |        |     |
|                                  | | s      |        |        |     |
|                                  | | patial |        |        |     |
|                                  | | corre  |        |        |     |
|                                  | | lation |        |        |     |
|                                  | | of     |        |        |     |
|                                  | | shadow |        |        |     |
|                                  | | fading |        |        |     |
|                                  | | d      |        |        |     |
|                                  | | efined |        |        |     |
|                                  | | in TR  |        |        |     |
|                                  | | 36.885 |        |        |     |
|                                  | | ap     |        |        |     |
|                                  | | plies. |        |        |     |
|                                  | +--------+--------+--------+     |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Dropping vehicles (based on      | Vehicles are dropped according   |
| clause 6.1.2 from TR 37.885)     | to the following process:        |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | \- The distance between the rear |
|                                  | bumper of a vehicle and the      |
|                                  | front bumper of the following    |
|                                  | vehicle in the same lane is max  |
|                                  | {2 meter, an exponential random  |
|                                  | variable with the average of the |
|                                  | speed \* 2 sec}.                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | \- All the vehicles in the same  |
|                                  | lane have the same speed.        |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | \- Vehicle type distribution is  |
|                                  | not dependent of the lane.       |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Total number of vehicles         | It depends on vehicle UE density |
|                                  | and block size.                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| vehicle UE activation rate for   | 1% of total number of UEs        |
| aggressor and victim             |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| vehicle type (based on clause    | > \- Type 2 (passenger vehicle   |
| 6.1.2 from TR 37.885)            | > with higher antenna position): |
|                                  | > length 5 meters, width 2.0     |
|                                  | > meters, height 1.6 meters,     |
|                                  | > antenna height 1.6 meters      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

#### 5.2.1.2 Simulation parameters

Table 5.2.1.2-1: Simulation parameters in ITS spectrum

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Parameter      | Value          |                |                |
+================+================+================+================+
|                | DSRC UE        | LTE V2X UE     | NR V2X UE      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Tx power       | 23dBm          | 23dBm          | 23dBm          |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Channel        | 10MHz          | 20MHz          | 40MHz          |
| Bandwidth      |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Packet size    | 1\) 190 byte   | 1)14 PRB (190  | 1)\[70\] PRB   |
|                | packet         | byte packet)   | (1100 byte     |
|                |                |                | packet) for    |
|                | 2\) 300 byte   | 2)20 PRB (300  | 15kHz SCS      |
|                | packet         | byte packet)   |                |
|                |                |                | 2)Other        |
|                |                |                | options are    |
|                |                |                | not precluded  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Traffic model  | 1 transmission |                |                |
|                | every 100ms    |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | 100ms message  |                |                |
|                | generation     |                |                |
|                | period         |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Time instance  |                |                |
|                | of message     |                |                |
|                | generation is  |                |                |
|                | randomized     |                |                |
|                | among vehicles |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Noise figure   | 10dB           | 9dB            | 9dB            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Antenna        | Om             |                |                |
| pattern        | ni-directional |                |                |
|                | with gain of   |                |                |
|                | 0 dBi          |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Sidelink Power | In ITS         |                |                |
| control        | spectrum,      |                |                |
|                | worst case of  |                |                |
|                | no power       |                |                |
|                | control is     |                |                |
|                | used           |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| SINR-to-BLER   | As per link    | As per link    | As per link    |
| mapping        | level          | level          | level          |
|                | performance    | performance    | performance    |
|                | model in TR    | model in TR    | model in TR    |
|                | 36.785         | 36.785         | 38.886         |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Table A-4 for  | Table A-3 for  | Table A-2 for  |
|                | 5.9GHz         | 5.9GHz         | 5.9GHz         |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

Table 5.2.1.2-2: Additional simulation assumptions for DSRC UE

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Parameter                        | Value                            |
+==================================+==================================+
| DSRC MCS                         | QPSK with r=1/2                  |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Transmit duration of 341us       |
|                                  | (190bytes) and 488 (300bytes)    |
|                                  | without header                   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DSRC MAC                         | Coordination : DL+UL coexistence |
|                                  | evaluation : EDCA                |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
|                                  | Detection : Energy detection &   |
|                                  | preamble detection               |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DSRC Slot time                   | 13us (Note specified for 10MHz   |
|                                  | \[802.11 -2012\])                |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DSRC DIFS                        | 58us (SIFS + 2\*slot\_time)      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DSRC SIFS                        | 32us                             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DSRC Physical header size        | 40us                             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DSRC Threshold triggering        | -98dBm                           |
| physical header decoding         |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DSRC CCA-CS                      | -85dBm                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DSRC CCA-ED                      | -65dBm                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| OFDM symbol duration             | 8us                              |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

#### 5.2.1.3 ACLR and ACS

1 Option 1 (as baseline) : 1 step ACLR/ACS model

Table 5.2.1.3-1: ACLR and ACS in ITS spectrum

+-----------+------------------------------------------+------------+-----------+
| Parameter | Value                                    |            |           |
+===========+==========================================+============+===========+
|           | DSRC UE                                  | LTE V2X UE | NR V2X UE |
+-----------+------------------------------------------+------------+-----------+
| ACLR      | 26dB                                     | 30dB       | 30 + X dB |
+-----------+------------------------------------------+------------+-----------+
| ACS       | Use three candidate ACS level for DSRC : | 27dB       | 24+ X dB  |
|           |                                          |            |           |
|           | 22/25/29dB                               |            |           |
+-----------+------------------------------------------+------------+-----------+

Details for modelling:

2\. Option 2: 2 steps ACLR/ACS model.

ACLR:

\- If the frequency offset between transmitting RB (aggressor) and
receiving RB (victim) is smaller than the transmitter (aggressor)
allocated transmission bandwidth bandwidth then ACLR1 applies.

\- If the frequency offset between transmitting RB (aggressor) and
receiving RB (victim) is larger than the transmitter (aggressor)
allocated transmission bandwidth bandwidth then ACLR2 applies

ACS

\- If the frequency offset between transmitting RB (aggressor) and
receiving channel edge (victim) is smaller than 10MHz then ACS1 applies.

\- If the frequency offset between transmitting RB (aggressor) and
receiving channel edge (victim) is larger than 10MHz then ACS2 applies.

\- NOTE: 10MHz offset velue is derived from LTE V2X definition of ACS
and inband blocking requirement, as will as DSRC adjacent and alternate
adjacent channel rejection requirement definition

Table 5.2.1.3-2: ACLR1/2 and ACS1/2 in ITS spectrum

+----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+
| Parameter      | Value          |               |                |
+================+================+===============+================+
|                | DSRC UE        | LTE V2X UE    | NR V2X UE      |
+----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+
| ACLR1          | 26dB           | 30dB          | 30 + X dB      |
+----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+
| ACLR2          | \[39\]dB       | \[43\]dB      | \[43\]dB       |
+----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+
| ACS1           | Use three      | 27dB          | 24+ X dB       |
|                | candidate ACS  |               |                |
|                | level for DSRC |               |                |
|                | :              |               |                |
|                |                |               |                |
|                | 22/25/29dB     |               |                |
+----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+
| ACS2           | > ACS1 + 16    | 43dB (NOTE 2) | \[40\]dB +     |
|                | > (NOTE 1)     |               | X(NOTE 3)      |
+----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+
| NOTE 1:        |                |               |                |
| following      |                |               |                |
| definition of  |                |               |                |
| alternate      |                |               |                |
| adjacent       |                |               |                |
| channel        |                |               |                |
| rejection      |                |               |                |
| requirement of |                |               |                |
| DSRC \[EN 302  |                |               |                |
| 571\]          |                |               |                |
|                |                |               |                |
| NOTE 2:        |                |               |                |
| following      |                |               |                |
| definition of  |                |               |                |
| in band        |                |               |                |
| blocking       |                |               |                |
| requirement,   |                |               |                |
| case 1 of LTE  |                |               |                |
| CV2X \[TS      |                |               |                |
| 36.101\]       |                |               |                |
|                |                |               |                |
| NOTE 3:        |                |               |                |
| following      |                |               |                |
| definition of  |                |               |                |
| in band        |                |               |                |
| blocking       |                |               |                |
| requirement,   |                |               |                |
| case 2 of NR   |                |               |                |
| and apply same |                |               |                |
| tightening as  |                |               |                |
| for LTE V2X.   |                |               |                |
+----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+

### 5.2.2 Coexistence simulation parameters in FR1 FDD licensed spectrum

#### 5.2.2.1 Network layout model

![](media/image4.png){width="5.736340769903762in"
height="5.673912948381452in"}

Figure 5.2.2.1-1 Network layout model for NR V2X coexistence simulation
for case7 and case8

Table 5.2.2-1: Simulation network layout model for case7 and case8

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Parameter                        | Value                            |
+==================================+==================================+
| carrier frequency                | 2GHz                             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| The first layout for LTE WAN     | [layer with 7 hexagonal cell     |
|                                  | with wrap around]{.underline}    |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Inter-BS distance                | [500m]{.underline}               |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| LTE WAN UL scheduler algorithm   | Round robin with full buffer     |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| RBs allocated per active WAN UE  | For LTE UE-to-LTE Uu BS: 32 PRBs |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Number of active WAN UEs         | 3UEs                             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Number of LTE WAN UEs            | 20UEs/Cell, 100% outdoor         |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | (UEs are dropped with the equal  |
|                                  | inter-UE distance in the middle  |
|                                  | of the sidewalk)                 |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Minimum coupling loss (for       | As per clause 4.5.1 in TR        |
| V2X/WAN UEs from BS)             | 36.942:                          |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | MCL : 70dB for Urban area        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Pathloss model for               | Follow TR 37.885 for FR1         |
|                                  |                                  |
| \- LTE UE-to-LTE Uu BS           | +-------------+-------------+    |
|                                  | | FR1         |             |    |
| \- NR V2X UE-to-LTE Uu BS        | +=============+=============+    |
|                                  | | LOS         | NLOS        |    |
|                                  | +-------------+-------------+    |
|                                  | | [Urban:]{   | [Urban:]{   |    |
|                                  | | .underline} | .underline} |    |
|                                  | |             |             |    |
|                                  | | TR 38.901   | TR 38.901   |    |
|                                  | | UMa LOS     | UMa NLOS    |    |
|                                  | |             |             |    |
|                                  | | [Highway:]{ | [Highway:]{ |    |
|                                  | | .underline} | .underline} |    |
|                                  | |             |             |    |
|                                  | | TR 38.901   | N/A         |    |
|                                  | | RMa LOS     |             |    |
|                                  | +-------------+-------------+    |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
|                                  |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| The second layout for NR V2X     | Urban Mahathan grid model        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Simulation Block Size            | 433m, 250m                       |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Velocity of vehicles             | 15km/h or 60km/h                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Note1: Fixed location will be    |
|                                  | considered for adjacent          |
|                                  | coexistence evaluation.          |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Note2: Velocity only used to     |
|                                  | decide the UE density.           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Pathloss model for               | +--------+--------+--------+     |
|                                  | | LO     | Pa     | Shadow |     |
| \- LTE Uu UE-to-NR V2X UE        | | S/NLOS | thloss | fading |     |
|                                  | | /NLOSv | \[dB\] | std    |     |
|                                  | |        |        | \[dB\] |     |
|                                  | +========+========+========+     |
|                                  | | LOS,   | For    | σ~SF~  |     |
|                                  | | NLOSv  | H      | = 3    |     |
|                                  | |        | ighway |        |     |
|                                  | |        | case,  |        |     |
|                                  | |        |        |        |     |
|                                  | |        | PL =   |        |     |
|                                  | |        | 32.4 + |        |     |
|                                  | |        | 20     |        |     |
|                                  | |        | lo     |        |     |
|                                  | |        | g~10~( |        |     |
|                                  | |        | d~3D~) |        |     |
|                                  | |        | + 20   |        |     |
|                                  | |        | l      |        |     |
|                                  | |        | og~10~ |        |     |
|                                  | |        | (f~c~) |        |     |
|                                  | |        |        |        |     |
|                                  | |        | For    |        |     |
|                                  | |        | Urban  |        |     |
|                                  | |        | case,  |        |     |
|                                  | |        |        |        |     |
|                                  | |        | PL=    |        |     |
|                                  | |        | 38.77  |        |     |
|                                  | |        | + 16.7 |        |     |
|                                  | |        | lo     |        |     |
|                                  | |        | g~10~( |        |     |
|                                  | |        | d~3D~) |        |     |
|                                  | |        | + 18.2 |        |     |
|                                  | |        | l      |        |     |
|                                  | |        | og~10~ |        |     |
|                                  | |        | (f~c~) |        |     |
|                                  | +--------+--------+--------+     |
|                                  | | NLOS   | PL=    | σ~SF~  |     |
|                                  | |        | 36.85  | = 4    |     |
|                                  | |        | + 30   |        |     |
|                                  | |        | lo     |        |     |
|                                  | |        | g~10~( |        |     |
|                                  | |        | d~3D~) |        |     |
|                                  | |        | + 18.9 |        |     |
|                                  | |        | l      |        |     |
|                                  | |        | og~10~ |        |     |
|                                  | |        | (f~c~) |        |     |
|                                  | +--------+--------+--------+     |
|                                  | | Note   |        |        |     |
|                                  | | 1:     |        |        |     |
|                                  | | f~c~   |        |        |     |
|                                  | | d      |        |        |     |
|                                  | | enotes |        |        |     |
|                                  | | the    |        |        |     |
|                                  | | center |        |        |     |
|                                  | | fre    |        |        |     |
|                                  | | quency |        |        |     |
|                                  | | in GHz |        |        |     |
|                                  | | and    |        |        |     |
|                                  | | d~3D~  |        |        |     |
|                                  | | d      |        |        |     |
|                                  | | enotes |        |        |     |
|                                  | | the    |        |        |     |
|                                  | | Euc    |        |        |     |
|                                  | | lidean |        |        |     |
|                                  | | di     |        |        |     |
|                                  | | stance |        |        |     |
|                                  | | b      |        |        |     |
|                                  | | etween |        |        |     |
|                                  | | TX and |        |        |     |
|                                  | | RX in  |        |        |     |
|                                  | | 3D     |        |        |     |
|                                  | | space  |        |        |     |
|                                  | | in     |        |        |     |
|                                  | | m      |        |        |     |
|                                  | | eters. |        |        |     |
|                                  | |        |        |        |     |
|                                  | | Note   |        |        |     |
|                                  | | 2: The |        |        |     |
|                                  | | model  |        |        |     |
|                                  | | for    |        |        |     |
|                                  | | s      |        |        |     |
|                                  | | patial |        |        |     |
|                                  | | corre  |        |        |     |
|                                  | | lation |        |        |     |
|                                  | | of     |        |        |     |
|                                  | | shadow |        |        |     |
|                                  | | fading |        |        |     |
|                                  | | d      |        |        |     |
|                                  | | efined |        |        |     |
|                                  | | in TR  |        |        |     |
|                                  | | 36.885 |        |        |     |
|                                  | | ap     |        |        |     |
|                                  | | plies. |        |        |     |
|                                  | +--------+--------+--------+     |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Dropping vehicles (based on      | Vehicles are dropped according   |
| clause 6.1.2 from TR 37.885)     | to the following process:        |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | \- The distance between the rear |
|                                  | bumper of a vehicle and the      |
|                                  | front bumper of the following    |
|                                  | vehicle in the same lane is max  |
|                                  | {2 meter, an exponential random  |
|                                  | variable with the average of the |
|                                  | speed \* 2 sec}.                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | \- All the vehicles in the same  |
|                                  | lane have the same speed.        |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | \- Vehicle type distribution is  |
|                                  | not dependent of the lane.       |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Total number of vehicles         | It depends on UE density and     |
|                                  | block size. All vehicles are NR  |
|                                  | V2X UEs.                         |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Vehicle UE activation rate       | 1% of total number of vehicles   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| vehicle type (based on clause    | \- Type 2 (passenger vehicle     |
| 6.1.2 from TR 37.885)            | with higher antenna position):   |
|                                  | length 5 meters, width 2.0       |
|                                  | meters, height 1.6 meters,       |
|                                  | antenna height 1.6 meters        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

#### 5.2.2.2 Simulation parameters

Table 5.2.2.2-1: Simulation parameters for case7 and case8

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Parameter      | Value          |                |                |
+================+================+================+================+
|                | LTE UE         | LTE BS         | NR V2X UE      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Max Tx power   | 23dBm          | NA             | 23dBm          |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Channel        | 10MHz          | 10MHz          | 40MHz          |
| Bandwidth      |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Packet size    | 1)\[16\] PRB   |                | 1)\[70\] PRB   |
|                | for 15kHz SCS  |                | (1100 byte     |
|                |                |                | packet) for    |
|                | 2)Other        |                | 15kHz SCS      |
|                | options are    |                |                |
|                | not precluded  |                | 2)Other        |
|                |                |                | options are    |
|                |                |                | not precluded  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Traffic model  | Full buffer    | Full buffer    | Reference      |
|                |                |                | table          |
|                |                |                | 5.2.1.2-1      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Noise figure   | NA             | 5dB            | 9dB            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Antenna        | Om             | From clause    | Om             |
| pattern        | ni-directional | 4.2.1.1 of TR  | ni-directional |
|                | with gain of   | 36.942         | with gain of   |
|                | 0 dBi          |                | 0 dBi          |
|                |                | degrees, and   |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| SINR-to-BLER   | NA             | NA             | As per link    |
| mapping for NR |                |                | level          |
| V2X            |                |                | performance    |
|                |                |                | model in TR    |
|                |                |                | 38.886         |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Table A-2 for  |
|                |                |                | 2GHz           |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| SINR-to-rate   | NA             | As per link    | NA             |
| mapping for    |                | level          |                |
| LTE            |                | performance    |                |
|                |                | model in TR    |                |
|                |                | 36.942 (Table  |                |
|                |                | A.2)           |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

#### 5.2.2.3 ACLR and ACS

Table 5.2.2.3-1: ACLR and ACS for case7 and case8

  Parameter   Value             
  ----------- -------- -------- -----------
              LTE UE   LTE BS   NR V2X UE
  ACLR        30 dB    NA       30 + X dB
  ACS         NA       46 dB    24+ X dB

#### 5.2.2.4 Power control

For LTE WAN UE transmit power control, the following power control
equation shall be used for the initial uplink coexistence simulations:

where *P*~max~ is the maximum transmit power, *R*~min~ is the minimum
power reduction ratio to prevent UEs with good channels to transmit at
very low power level, *CL* is the path coupling loss defined as max{path
loss-G\_Tx-G\_Rx, MCL}, where path loss is propagation loss plus
shadowfading, G\_TX is the transmitter antenna gain in the direction of
the receiver, G\_RX is the receiver antenna gain in the direction of the
transmitter and *CL~x-~*~ile~ is the *x*-percentile *CL* value. With
this power control equation, the *x* percent of UEs that have the
highest coupling loss will transmit at *P*~max~. Finally, 0\<γ\<=1 is
the balancing factor for UEs with bad channel and UEs with good channel:

As per PC set 1 and PC set 2 of TR 36.942

Note that power control algorithm parameters (PodBm, CLxile) should be
optimized for network layouts being simulated. For simplicity, power
control algorithm parameters are reused in section 5.1.1.6 in TR 36.942
for all network layouts

Rmin = -63dB for 23dBm, -66dB for 26dBm

CLxile = 112 - 10\*log10(CBW / 10) for PC set 1

  PC Set   Gamma   CLxile (dBm)           
  -------- ------- -------------- ------- -------
                   10MHz          20MHz   40MHz
  1        1       112            109     106
  2        0.8     129            FFS     FFS

For NR V2X UE transmit power control, OLPC in TR36.786 is reused or no
power control is used..

CLxile = 112 - 10\*log10(CBW / 10) for PC set 1

### 5.2.3 Coexistence simulation parameters in FR1 TDD licensed spectrum 

#### 5.2.3.1 Network layout model

![](media/image4.png){width="5.780298556430446in"
height="5.717391732283464in"}

Figure 5.2.3.1-1 Network layout model for NR V2X coexistence simulation
for case5 and case6

Table 5.2.3-1: Simulation network layout model for case5 and case6

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Parameter                        | Value                            |
+==================================+==================================+
| carrier frequency                | 3.5GHz                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| The first layout for NR WAN      | [layer with 7 hexagonal cell     |
|                                  | with wrap around]{.underline}    |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Inter-BS distance                | [500m]{.underline}               |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NR WAN UL scheduler algorithm    | Round robin with full buffer     |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| RBs allocated per active WAN UE  | For NR UE-to-NR Uu BS: 64 PRBs   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Number of active WAN UEs         | 3UEs                             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Number of NR WAN UEs             | 20UEs/Cell, 100% outdoor         |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | (UEs are dropped with the equal  |
|                                  | inter-UE distance in the middle  |
|                                  | of the sidewalk)                 |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Minimum coupling loss (for       | As per clause 4.5.1 in TR        |
| V2X/WAN UEs from BS)             | 36.942:                          |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | MCL : 70dB for Urban area        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Pathloss model for               | Follow TR 37.885 for FR1         |
|                                  |                                  |
| \- NR UE-to-NR Uu BS             | +-------------+-------------+    |
|                                  | | FR1         |             |    |
| \- NR V2X UE-to-NR Uu BS         | +=============+=============+    |
|                                  | | LOS         | NLOS        |    |
|                                  | +-------------+-------------+    |
|                                  | | [Urban:]{   | [Urban:]{   |    |
|                                  | | .underline} | .underline} |    |
|                                  | |             |             |    |
|                                  | | TR 38.901   | TR 38.901   |    |
|                                  | | UMa LOS     | UMa NLOS    |    |
|                                  | |             |             |    |
|                                  | | [Highway:]{ | [Highway:]{ |    |
|                                  | | .underline} | .underline} |    |
|                                  | |             |             |    |
|                                  | | TR 38.901   | N/A         |    |
|                                  | | RMa LOS     |             |    |
|                                  | +-------------+-------------+    |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
|                                  |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| The second layout for NR V2X     | Urban Mahathan grid model        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Simulation Block Size            | 433m, 250m                       |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Velocity of vehicles             | 15km/h or 60km/h                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Note1: Fixed location will be    |
|                                  | considered for adjacent          |
|                                  | coexistence evaluation.          |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Note2: Velocity only used to     |
|                                  | decide the UE density.           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Pathloss model for               | +--------+--------+--------+     |
|                                  | | LO     | Pa     | Shadow |     |
| \- NR Uu UE-to-NR V2X UE         | | S/NLOS | thloss | fading |     |
|                                  | | /NLOSv | \[dB\] | std    |     |
|                                  | |        |        | \[dB\] |     |
|                                  | +========+========+========+     |
|                                  | | LOS,   | For    | σ~SF~  |     |
|                                  | | NLOSv  | H      | = 3    |     |
|                                  | |        | ighway |        |     |
|                                  | |        | case,  |        |     |
|                                  | |        |        |        |     |
|                                  | |        | PL =   |        |     |
|                                  | |        | 32.4 + |        |     |
|                                  | |        | 20     |        |     |
|                                  | |        | lo     |        |     |
|                                  | |        | g~10~( |        |     |
|                                  | |        | d~3D~) |        |     |
|                                  | |        | + 20   |        |     |
|                                  | |        | l      |        |     |
|                                  | |        | og~10~ |        |     |
|                                  | |        | (f~c~) |        |     |
|                                  | |        |        |        |     |
|                                  | |        | For    |        |     |
|                                  | |        | Urban  |        |     |
|                                  | |        | case,  |        |     |
|                                  | |        |        |        |     |
|                                  | |        | PL=    |        |     |
|                                  | |        | 38.77  |        |     |
|                                  | |        | + 16.7 |        |     |
|                                  | |        | lo     |        |     |
|                                  | |        | g~10~( |        |     |
|                                  | |        | d~3D~) |        |     |
|                                  | |        | + 18.2 |        |     |
|                                  | |        | l      |        |     |
|                                  | |        | og~10~ |        |     |
|                                  | |        | (f~c~) |        |     |
|                                  | +--------+--------+--------+     |
|                                  | | NLOS   | PL=    | σ~SF~  |     |
|                                  | |        | 36.85  | = 4    |     |
|                                  | |        | + 30   |        |     |
|                                  | |        | lo     |        |     |
|                                  | |        | g~10~( |        |     |
|                                  | |        | d~3D~) |        |     |
|                                  | |        | + 18.9 |        |     |
|                                  | |        | l      |        |     |
|                                  | |        | og~10~ |        |     |
|                                  | |        | (f~c~) |        |     |
|                                  | +--------+--------+--------+     |
|                                  | | Note   |        |        |     |
|                                  | | 1:     |        |        |     |
|                                  | | f~c~   |        |        |     |
|                                  | | d      |        |        |     |
|                                  | | enotes |        |        |     |
|                                  | | the    |        |        |     |
|                                  | | center |        |        |     |
|                                  | | fre    |        |        |     |
|                                  | | quency |        |        |     |
|                                  | | in GHz |        |        |     |
|                                  | | and    |        |        |     |
|                                  | | d~3D~  |        |        |     |
|                                  | | d      |        |        |     |
|                                  | | enotes |        |        |     |
|                                  | | the    |        |        |     |
|                                  | | Euc    |        |        |     |
|                                  | | lidean |        |        |     |
|                                  | | di     |        |        |     |
|                                  | | stance |        |        |     |
|                                  | | b      |        |        |     |
|                                  | | etween |        |        |     |
|                                  | | TX and |        |        |     |
|                                  | | RX in  |        |        |     |
|                                  | | 3D     |        |        |     |
|                                  | | space  |        |        |     |
|                                  | | in     |        |        |     |
|                                  | | m      |        |        |     |
|                                  | | eters. |        |        |     |
|                                  | |        |        |        |     |
|                                  | | Note   |        |        |     |
|                                  | | 2: The |        |        |     |
|                                  | | model  |        |        |     |
|                                  | | for    |        |        |     |
|                                  | | s      |        |        |     |
|                                  | | patial |        |        |     |
|                                  | | corre  |        |        |     |
|                                  | | lation |        |        |     |
|                                  | | of     |        |        |     |
|                                  | | shadow |        |        |     |
|                                  | | fading |        |        |     |
|                                  | | d      |        |        |     |
|                                  | | efined |        |        |     |
|                                  | | in TR  |        |        |     |
|                                  | | 36.885 |        |        |     |
|                                  | | ap     |        |        |     |
|                                  | | plies. |        |        |     |
|                                  | +--------+--------+--------+     |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Dropping vehicles (based on      | Vehicles are dropped according   |
| clause 6.1.2 from TR 37.885)     | to the following process:        |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | \- The distance between the rear |
|                                  | bumper of a vehicle and the      |
|                                  | front bumper of the following    |
|                                  | vehicle in the same lane is max  |
|                                  | {2 meter, an exponential random  |
|                                  | variable with the average of the |
|                                  | speed \* 2 sec}.                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | \- All the vehicles in the same  |
|                                  | lane have the same speed.        |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | \- Vehicle type distribution is  |
|                                  | not dependent of the lane.       |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Total number of vehicles         | It depends on UE density and     |
|                                  | block size. All vehicles are NR  |
|                                  | V2X UEs.                         |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Vehicle UE activation rate       | 1% of total number of vehicles   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| vehicle type (based on clause    | \- Type 2 (passenger vehicle     |
| 6.1.2 from TR 37.885)            | with higher antenna position):   |
|                                  | length 5 meters, width 2.0       |
|                                  | meters, height 1.6 meters,       |
|                                  | antenna height 1.6 meters        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

#### 5.2.3.2 Simulation parameters

Table 5.2.3.2-1: Simulation parameters for case5 and case6

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Parameter      | Value          |                |                |
+================+================+================+================+
|                | NR UE          | NR BS          | NR V2X UE      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Max Tx power   | 23dBm          | NA             | 23dBm          |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Channel        | 40MHz          | 40MHz          | 40MHz          |
| Bandwidth      |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Packet size    | 1)\[72\] PRB   |                | 1)\[70\] PRB   |
|                | for 15kHz SCS  |                | (1100 byte     |
|                |                |                | packet) for    |
|                | 2)Other        |                | 15kHz SCS      |
|                | options are    |                |                |
|                | not precluded  |                | 2)Other        |
|                |                |                | options are    |
|                |                |                | not precluded  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Traffic model  | Full buffer    | Full buffer    | Reference      |
|                |                |                | table          |
|                |                |                | 5.2.1.2-1      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Noise figure   | NA             | 5dB            | 9dB            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Antenna        | Om             | Antenna        | Om             |
| pattern        | ni-directional | pattern for    | ni-directional |
|                | with gain of   | FR1 Macro BS   | with gain of   |
|                | 0 dBi          | from TR 38.828 | 0 dBi          |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| SINR-to-BLER   | NA             | NA             | As per link    |
| mapping for NR |                |                | level          |
| V2X            |                |                | performance    |
|                |                |                | model in TR    |
|                |                |                | 38.886         |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Table A-2 for  |
|                |                |                | 3.5GHz         |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| SINR-to-rate   | NA             | As per link    | NA             |
| mapping for NR |                | level          |                |
|                |                | performance    |                |
|                |                | model in TR    |                |
|                |                | 36.942 (Table  |                |
|                |                | A.2). α,       |                |
|                |                | attenuation =  |                |
|                |                | 0.4,           |                |
|                |                | SNIR~MIN~, dB  |                |
|                |                | = -10,         |                |
|                |                | SNIR~MAX~, dB  |                |
|                |                | = 22           |                |
|                |                | (subclause     |                |
|                |                | 5.2.3.6 from   |                |
|                |                | TR 38.828).    |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

#### 5.2.3.3 ACLR and ACS

Table 5.2.3.3-1: ACLR and ACS for case5 and case6

  Parameter   Value           
  ----------- ------- ------- -----------
              NR UE   NR BS   NR V2X UE
  ACLR        30 dB   NA      30 + X dB
  ACS         NA      46 dB   33+ X dB

#### 5.2.3.4 Power control

For downlink scenario, no power control scheme is applied.

For NR WAN UE uplink scenario transmit power control, the following
power control equation shall be used for the initial uplink coexistence
simulations:

where *P*~max~ is the maximum transmit power, *R*~min~ is the minimum
power reduction ratio to prevent UEs with good channels to transmit at
very low power level, *CL* is the path coupling loss defined as max{path
loss-G\_Tx-G\_Rx, MCL}, where path loss is propagation loss plus
shadowfading, G\_TX is the transmitter antenna gain in the direction of
the receiver, G\_RX is the receiver antenna gain in the direction of the
transmitter and *CL~x-~*~ile~ is the *x*-percentile *CL* value. With
this power control equation, the *x* percent of UEs that have the
highest coupling loss will transmit at *P*~max~. Finally, 0\<γ\<=1 is
the balancing factor for UEs with bad channel and UEs with good channel:

\- CLx-ile = 88 + 10\*log10(200/X), where X is UL transmission BW (MHz)

\- γ = 1

\- *R*~min~ = -60dB for 23dBm

For NR V2X UE transmit power control, OLPC in TR36.786 is reused or no
power control is used.

CLxile = 112 - 10\*log10(CBW / 10) for PC set 1

### 5.2.4 PRR performance metrics for NR V2X coexistence simulation

For evaluation of co-existence performance for NR V2X, the Packet
Reception Ratio (PRR) is agreed in RAN4 to be used as performance
metric.

In TR 37.885, for one Tx packet, the PRR is calculated by X/Y, where Y
is the number of UE/vehicles that located in the range (a, b) from the
TX, and X is the number of UE/vehicles with successful reception among
Y.

\- CDF of PRR is used in evaluation with with a = 0, b = baseline of 320
meters for freeway and 150 meters for urban. Optionally, b = 50 meters
for urban with 15 km/h vehicle speed.

\- Average PRR, calculated as (X1+X2+X3....+Xn)/(Y1+Y2+Y3...+Yn) where n
denotes the number of generated messages in simulation. with a = i\*20
meters, b = (i+1)\*20 meters for i=0, 1, ..., 25

In RAN4 co-existence study for NR V2X, only urban cases with 15 km/h and
60 km/h are considered.

To align with LTE V2X's performance metric, average PRR at 50m for 15
km/h and average PRR at 150m for 60 km/h are chosen as the evaluation
criteria.

5.3 Coexistence simulation results
----------------------------------

### 5.3.1 Coexistence simulation results in ITS spectrum

#### 5.3.1.1 Huawei simulation results for Case1, Case2, Case3 and Case 4

According to detail assumptions TP \[6\] proposed in reflector, we can
obtain the simulation results which are shown as figure 5.3.1.1-1 \~
figure 5.3.1.1-4 for case1.

![](media/image9.emf){width="5.079861111111111in" height="3.8in"}

Figure 5.3.1.1‑1. coexistence simulation results for case1 (15kmph
190Bytes)

![](media/image10.emf){width="5.127777777777778in"
height="3.8402777777777777in"}

Figure 5.3.1.1‑2. coexistence simulation results for case1 (15kmph
300Bytes)

![](media/image11.emf){width="5.0159722222222225in"
height="3.752083333333333in"}

Figure 5.3.1.1‑3. coexistence simulation results for case1 (60kmph
190Bytes)

![](media/image12.emf){width="5.040277777777778in"
height="3.7756944444444445in"}

Figure 5.3.1.1‑4. coexistence simulation results for case1 (60kmph
300Bytes)

According to detail assumptions TP \[6\] proposed in reflector, we can
obtain the simulation results which are shown as figure 5.3.1.1-5 \~
figure 5.3.1.1-8 for case3.

![](media/image13.emf){width="5.768055555555556in"
height="4.320138888888889in"}

Figure 5.3.1.1‑5. coexistence simulation results for case3 (15kmph
190Bytes)

![](media/image14.emf){width="5.768055555555556in"
height="4.320138888888889in"}

Figure 5.3.1.1‑6. coexistence simulation results for case3 (15kmph
300Bytes)

![](media/image15.emf){width="5.768055555555556in"
height="4.320138888888889in"}

Figure 5.3.1.1‑7. coexistence simulation results for case3 (60kmph
190Bytes)

![](media/image16.emf){width="5.768055555555556in"
height="4.320138888888889in"}

Figure 5.3.1.1‑8. coexistence simulation results for case3 (60kmph
300Bytes)

According to detail assumptions TP \[6\] proposed in reflector, we can
obtain the simulation results which are shown as figure 5.3.1.1‑9 \~
figure 5.3.1.1‑10 for case2 and case4.

![](media/image17.emf){width="5.7659722222222225in" height="4.325in"}

Figure 5.3.1.1‑9. coexistence simulation results for case2 and case4
(15kmph 1100Bytes)

![](media/image18.emf){width="5.7659722222222225in" height="4.325in"}

Figure 5.3.1.1‑10. coexistence simulation results for case2 and case4
(60kmph 1100Bytes)

The PRR loss for case1, case2, case3 and case4 are summarized in table
5.3.1.2‑1 \~ Table 5.3.1.2‑6. Then, the results of DSRC to DSRC, LTE V2X
to LTE V2X and NR V2V to NR V2V are listed as references.

Table 5.3.1.2‑1. PRR loss for case1

  PRR loss   At 50m range for 15km/h   At 150m range for 60km/h                        
  ---------- ------------------------- -------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------
             NR V2V to DSRC V2V        DSRC V2V to DSRC V2V       NR V2V to DSRC V2V   DSRC V2V to DSRC V2V
  190Byte    1.1%                      1.1%                       2.7%                 3.9%
  300Byte    1.2%                      2%                         2.8%                 4%

Table 5.3.1.2‑2. PRR loss for case2

  PRR loss   At 50m range for 15km/h   At 150m range for 60km/h                      
  ---------- ------------------------- -------------------------- ------------------ ----------------
             NR V2V to NR V2V          DSRC to NR V2V             NR V2V to NR V2V   DSRC to NR V2V
  1100Byte   0.8%                      1.1%                       1.7%               2.2%

Table 5.3.1.2‑3. PRR loss for case3

  PRR loss   At 50m range for 15km/h   At 150m range for 60km/h                       
  ---------- ------------------------- -------------------------- ------------------- --------------------
             NR V2V to LTE V2V         LTE V2V to LTE V2V         NR V2V to LTE V2V   LTE V2V to LTE V2V
  190Byte    0.7%                      0.3%                       2.2%                2.5%
  300Byte    0.7%                      0.8%                       2.9%                2.6%

Table 5.3.1.2‑4. PRR loss for case4

  PRR loss   At 50m range for 15km/h   At 150m range for 60km/h                      
  ---------- ------------------------- -------------------------- ------------------ -------------------
             NR V2V to NR V2V          LTE V2V to NR V2V          NR V2V to NR V2V   LTE V2V to NR V2V
  1100Byte   0.8%                      1.0%                       1.7%               2.0%

Based on NR V2X co-existence simulation results for case1 and case3, the
following observations are made:

\- For both PRR loss at 50m range for 15km/h and at 150m range for
60km/h, NR V2X UE makes acceptable interference to DSRC victim and LTE
V2X UE victim for ITS spectrum.

\- For both PRR loss at 50m range for 15km/h and at 150m range for
60km/h, DSRC / LTE V2X UE makes acceptable interference to NR V2X UE
victim for ITS spectrum.

\- All the PRR loss is less than 5%.

**Observation 1: NR V2X UE can co-existence well with DSRC system and
LTE V2X system for ITS spectrum with NR ACLR requirement which is 30dBc
for power class 3.**

**Observation 2: NR V2X UE can co-existence well with DSRC system and**
**LTE V2X system for ITS spectrum with NR ACS requirement which is 24dB
\@BW=40MHz for power class 3.**

#### 5.3.1.2 LG simulation results for Case1, Case2, Case3 and Case 4

In Figure 5.3.1.2‑1 \~ Figure 5.3.1.2‑4, we present our simulation
results for Case 1, Case 2, Case 3, and Case 4, respectively.

![](media/image19.png){width="3.322834645669291in"
height="2.751968503937008in"}![](media/image20.png){width="3.3188976377952755in"
height="2.751968503937008in"}

![](media/image21.png){width="3.326771653543307in"
height="2.751968503937008in"}![](media/image22.png){width="3.3188976377952755in"
height="2.751968503937008in"}

Figure 5.3.1.2‑1. Coexistence simulation results of Case 1 for 15km/h
and 60km/h\
(w/ 190 bytes and 300 bytes payload)

![](media/image23.png){width="3.3149606299212597in"
height="2.874015748031496in"}![](media/image24.png){width="3.3188976377952755in"
height="2.874015748031496in"}

Figure 5.3.1.2‑2. Coexistence simulation results of Case 2 for 15km/h
and 60km/h (w/ 1100 bytes payload)

![](media/image25.png){width="3.3188976377952755in"
height="2.874015748031496in"}![](media/image26.png){width="3.3188976377952755in"
height="2.874015748031496in"}

![](media/image27.png){width="3.3188976377952755in"
height="2.8661417322834644in"}![](media/image28.png){width="3.311023622047244in"
height="2.8661417322834644in"}

Figure 5.3.1.2‑3. Coexistence simulation results of Case 3 for 15km/h
and 60km/h\
(w/ 190 bytes and 300 bytes payload)

![](media/image29.png){width="3.3149606299212597in"
height="2.874015748031496in"}![](media/image30.png){width="3.3188976377952755in"
height="2.874015748031496in"}

Figure 5.3.1.2‑4. Coexistence simulation results of Case 4 for 15km/h
and 60km/h (w/ 1100 bytes payload)

From all simulation results, we can observe there is no significant
impact in terms of PRR performance when NR V2X system is deployed on
adjacent channel.

***Observation: No significant impact in terms of PRR performance are
shown for Case 1, Case2, Case 3, and Case 4.***

Also in Table 5.3.1.2‑1, we present PRR loss for ITE band coexistence
scenario for given summarized numeric PRR loss

Table 5.3.1.2‑1. Summary of PRR loss for ITS band coexistence scenario

  Scenario   Payload (byte)   50m range for 15km/h   150m range for 60km/h
  ---------- ---------------- ---------------------- -----------------------
  Case 1     190              0.58 %                 1.53 %
             300              0.86 %                 1.82 %
  Case 2     1100             0.56 %                 1.41 %
  Case 3     190              0.10 %                 0.11 %
             300              0.10 %                 0.93 %
  Case 4     1100             0.63 %                 0.47 %

Although some simulation assumption including SINR-PRR mapping table
need to be updated, we think that similar conclusion will be expected
considering coexistence impact is based on relative performance
degradation due to adjacent channel interference from aggressor system.

#### 5.3.1.3 Qualcomm simulation results for Case3 and Case4

In figure 5.3.1.3‑1 is the performance of NR V2X Packet Reception Ratio,
while figure 5.3.1.3-2 is the performance of NR V2X. We can see that
under the simulation assumptions above, the degradation coming from
adjacent channel aggressor is quite acceptable to both systems.

![cid:image002.png\@01D59E48.90955F80](media/image31.png){width="6.5in"
height="4.660416666666666in"}

Figure 5.3.1.3‑1. LTE V2X PRR Performance

![cid:image003.png\@01D59E48.90955F80](media/image32.png){width="6.5in"
height="4.316666666666666in"}

Figure 5.3.1.3-2 NR V2X PRR Performance

In figure 5.3.1.3-1, we compare the PRR performance of LTE V2X under 2
different scenarios.

1\. Single system: only LTE V2X operates in a 20MHz channel.

2\. NR V2X aggressor, X = 0: LTE V2X operates in a 20MHz channel. NR V2X
operates in the adjacent 40MHz channel. The ACLR of NR V2X is 30dB in
first step and 43 dB in the second step.

In figure 5.3.1.3-2, we compare the PRR performance of NR V2X under 2
different scenarios.

1\. Single system: only NR V2X operates in the 40MHz channel.

2\. LTE V2X aggressor, X = 0: NR V2X operates in a 40MHz channel. LTE
V2X operates in the adjacent 20MHz channel. The ACLR of LTE V2X is 30dB
in first step and 43 dB in the second step.

Based on the result, the performance degradation inflicted to LTE V2X
system by NR V2X and degradation inflicited to NR V2X system by LTE V2X
is negligible, even without any tightening to the existing NR Uu ACLR
requirement.

### 5.3.2 Coexistence simulation results in licensed spectrum for FR1

#### 5.3.2.1 Huawei simulation results for Case5 and Case 6

According to detail assumptions TP \[6\] proposed, we can obtain the
simulation results without power control which are shown as figure
5.3.2.1‑1 \~ figure 5.3.2.1‑3 for case5 and case6 without power control.

![](media/image33.emf){width="4.889763779527559in"
height="3.661417322834646in"}

Figure 5.3.2.1‑1. CDF of SINR for case5 without power control (60kmph
1100Bytes)

![](media/image34.emf){width="4.889763779527559in"
height="3.661417322834646in"}

Figure 5.3.2.1‑2. CDF of Through for case5 without power control (60kmph
1100Bytes)

![](media/image35.emf){width="4.889763779527559in"
height="3.661417322834646in"}

Figure 5.3.2.1‑3. coexistence simulation results for case6 without power
control (60kmph 1100Bytes)

According to detail assumptions TP \[6\] proposed, we can obtain the
simulation results with power control which are shown as figure
5.3.2.1‑4 \~ figure 5.3.2.1‑6 for case5 and case6.

![](media/image36.emf){width="4.889763779527559in"
height="3.661417322834646in"}

Figure 5.3.2.1‑4. CDF of SINR for case5 with power control (60kmph
1100Bytes)

![](media/image37.emf){width="4.889763779527559in"
height="3.661417322834646in"}

Figure 5.3.2.1‑5. CDF of through for case5 with power control (60kmph
1100Bytes)

![](media/image38.emf){width="4.889763779527559in"
height="3.661417322834646in"}

Figure 5.3.2.1‑6. coexistence simulation results for case6 with power
control (60kmph 1100Bytes)

Based on simulation results, the throughput loss for case5 are
summarized in table 5.3.2.1-1. The PRR loss for case6 are summarized in
table 5.3.2.1-2.

Table 5.3.2.1-1. Throughput loss for case5

  Throughput loss   **5% tile**             
  ----------------- ----------------------- -------------------------
                    without power control   with power control
                    9%                      little performance loss

Table 5.3.2.1-2. PRR loss for case6

  PRR loss (1100Byte)   At 150m range for 60km/h   
  --------------------- -------------------------- --------------------
                        without power control      with power control
                        1.8%                       9.5%

Based on NR V2X co-existence simulation results for case5 and case6, the
following observations are made:

\- With power control PRR loss at 150m range for 60km/h exceeds 5%, so
the performance loss can't be accepted for NR V2X UE. But it is observed
that there is very little performance loss for NR BS in this scenario.

\- Without power control the throughput loss at 5%-tile for 60km/h
exceeds 5%, so the performance loss can't be accepted for NR BS. But it
is observed that there is only 1.8% PRR loss for NR V2X UE in this
scenario.

**Observation 1: Based on the simulation results in this paper,**

\- If there is no power control scheme, throughput degradation is
unacceptable for victim NR BS.

\- The power control can mitigate the interference from NR V2X UE to NR
BS, but at the expense of NR V2X system performance.

**Observation 2: Further study and discussion is needed in RAN4.**

#### 5.3.2.2 LG simulation results for Case5 and Case 6

For coexistence scenario in license bands, we evaluate simulation
results for Case 5, 6, based on agreed Coexistence simulation assumption
\[6\]. For power control in NR V2X, we didn't use any power control
scheme at this stage.

For Case 5, we present our simulation results in terms of 5%-tile T-put
loss in Table 5.3.2.2-1.

Table 5.3.2.2-1. 5%-tile throughput loss of NR Uu BS in Case 5

  　                   15km/h   60km/h
  -------------------- -------- --------
  5%-tile T-put loss   20.55%   7.99%

From simulation results, we can see that there exist reasonable impact
on uplink performance of NR Uu BS if NR V2X UE w/o power control exist
in adjacent frequency.

***Observation 1. When NR V2X UE w/o power control scheme exist as
aggressor in case 5, reasonable T-put loss in NR uplink was observed.***

For Case 6, we present our simulation results in Figure 5.3.2.2-1 in
terms of average packet reception ratio for both 15km/h and 60km/h.
Also, we present PRR loss of Case 6 due to NR Uu UE as aggressor in
Table 5.3.2.2-2.

![](media/image39.png){width="3.063888888888889in"
height="2.5756944444444443in"}![](media/image40.png){width="3.0479166666666666in"
height="2.5756944444444443in"}

Figure 5.3.2.2-1. Average PRR of NR V2X UE in Case 6

Table 5.3.2.2-2. PRR loss of NR V2X UE in Case 6

  　                     \@50m range for 15km/h   \@150m range for 60km/h
  ---------------------- ------------------------ -------------------------
  PRR Loss (1100 byts)   0.74 %                   1.65 %

From simulation results, we can see that there is no reasonable
performance impact on NR V2X UE, even if NR Uu exist in adjacent
frequency.

***Observation 2. When NR Uu UE exist as aggressor in case 6, no
reasonable PRR loss in NR V2X UE was observed.***

### 5.3.3 Coexistence simulation results in licensed spectrum for FR2

5.4 Conclusion of V2X coexistence evaluations
---------------------------------------------

The PC5-based NR V2X UE coexistence evaluations are performed at
3.5GHz/5.9GHz operating frequency range in Rel-16 NR V2X WI. The
adjacent coexistence simulation results are captured in sub-clause 5.3.
Based on the evaluation results,

1\. For coexistence in ITS spectrum of n47(Case1, Case2, Case3 and
Case4), following observations are made:

\- Based on the simulation results, NR V2X can coexist with LTE V2X or
DSRC in ITS spectrum of n47.

2\. For coexistence in license spectrum for FR1(Case 5, and Case 6),
following observations are made:

\- Based on the simulation results, there is no evidence that NR V2X can
coexist with NR Uu in licensed spectrum without power control for FR1.

\- If there is no power control scheme in NR V2X, throughput degradation
is unacceptable for victim NR BS.

\- When OLPC is employed for either unicast, broadcast or groupcast in
the licensed band, eNB/gNB performance degradation in the adjacent
channel is negligible in FR1.

3\. For coexistence in licensed spectrum for FR2(Case 9 and Case 10), no
simulation result was submitted.

Based on the above analysis, the PC5-based NR V2X service will be within
acceptable operating limits for adjacent channel coexistence scenarios
in ITS spectrum of n47 and in licensed spectrum either when the entire
band is allocated for SL in a given region or when SL operation in a TDD
band in sync with the non-V2X operation in the same band.

6 Evaluation of In-device Coexistence 
=====================================

6.1 In-device coexistence scenarios
-----------------------------------

From the UE perspective, coexistence between LTE V2X and NR V2X SLs is
studied when there are coordinated procedures between LTE and NR, and
half-duplex constraints are assumed.

Solutions based on TDM or FDM between LTE and NR SLs are the focus of
the study. TDM solutions are those that involve overlapping or
simultaneous NR and LTE V2X SL transmissions. FDM solutions are those
that involve simultaneous NR and LTE V2X SL transmissions, and define
solutions for sharing the total power between the two.

RAN4 conducted indevice coexistence for two scenarios:

1\. when LTE SL and NR SL in the ITS band, and without LTE or NR Uu in
another band on the same device

2\. when LTE SL and NR SL in the ITS band, and with LTE or NR Uu in
another band on the same device

For the scenario 1: no self-interference issues are identified for TDM
operation in 5.9 GHz ITS spectrum. The long-term coexistence is found
feasible without any issues. For short-term switching times for TDM
operation needs to be studied.

6.2 UE architecture considerations
----------------------------------

For in-device coexistence, the UE architecture and implementation
assumptions need to be considered. For this short-term switching period
analysis, intra-band operation without dual PA capability can be the
baseline. It may be possible that a better switching delay performance
is possible by considering separate RF chains with dual PAs. However,
for this analysis the baseline performance considering single PA is
considered.

6.3 Switching time analysis
---------------------------

The switching time between NR SL and LTE SL for short-term TDM operation
was analyzed as part of this study. The general ON / OFF time mask
requirements in subclause 6.3.3.2 in TS 38.101-1 is applicable for NR
sidelink also. In addition to the above general ON / OFF time masks, the
additional switching period of about \[150us\] is applicable between the
NR SL and LTE SL. Considering that the NR V2X CBW is 10/20/30/40 MHz and
that of LTE V2X is 10/20MHz, the spectrum span for contiguous and
non-contiguous transmissions would be similar, the switching time can be
similar.

7 Operating bands and channel arrangement 
=========================================

7.1 Operating bands
-------------------

### 7.1.1 Operating bands in FR1

NR V2X communication is designed to operate in the operating bands in
FR1 defined in Table 7.1.1-1.

Table 7.1.1-1 V2X operating bands in FR1

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------- ----------- ---- ---------- ---- -----
  V2X Operating Band                                                                                                  Sidelink (SL) Transmission operating band   Sidelink (SL) Reception operating band   Duplex Mode   Interface                        
                                                                                                                      F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~                   F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~                                                               
  n38^1^                                                                                                              2570 MHz                                    \-                                       2620 MHz      2570 MHz    \-   2620 MHz   HD   PC5
  n47                                                                                                                 5855 MHz                                    \-                                       5925 MHz      5855 MHz    \-   5925 MHz   HD   PC5
  Note 1: When this band is used for V2X SL service, the band is exclusively used for NR V2X in particular regions.                                                                                                                                       
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------- ----------- ---- ---------- ---- -----

### 7.1.2 Operating bands in FR2

### 7.1.3 Operating bands for inter-band con-current operation in FR1

NR V2X operation is designed to operate concurrent with NR
uplink/downlink on the operating bands combinations listed in Table
7.1.3-1.

Table 7.1.3-1: NR V2X inter-band con-current operation

  V2X con-current operating Band                                                    V2X Band   Interface
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------- -----------
  V2X\_n71-n47                                                                      n71        Uu
                                                                                    n47        PC5
  NOTE 1: NR licensed Band is operated for legacy NR operation and/or V2X service              

7.2 Channel bandwidth
---------------------

### 7.2.1 Channel bandwidth in FR1

The NR V2X Communication channel bandwidths and operating bands are
shown in Table 7.2.1-1. The same (symmetrical) channel bandwidth is
specified for both the TX and RX path.

Channel bandwidths defined for NR V2X licensed band should be a subset
of UE channel bandwidths for the same licensed band in NR for Rel-16. If
operators do have a request for introducing new channel bandwidths for
NR V2X licensed bands, it can be treated in the enhanced sidelink WI for
collecting operators' request and defining additional RF requirements
related to these new channel bandwidths in Rel-17.

Table 7.2.1-1 V2X Communication channel bandwidth

                                 V2X band / V2X channel bandwidth                                                                  
  -------------------- --------- ---------------------------------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- ---------
  V2X Operating Band   SCS kHz   10 MHz                             20 MHz   30 MHz   40 MHz   50 MHz   60 MHz   80 MHz   90 MHz   100 MHz
  n38                  15        Yes                                Yes      Yes      Yes                                          
                       30        Yes                                Yes      Yes      Yes                                          
                       60        Yes                                Yes      Yes      Yes                                          
  n47                  15        Yes                                Yes      Yes      Yes                                          
                       30        Yes                                Yes      Yes      Yes                                          
                       60        Yes                                Yes      Yes      Yes                                          

### 7.2.2 Channel bandwidth in FR2

### 7.2.3 Channel bandwidth for inter-band con-current operation in FR1

For NR V2X inter-band con-current operation in FR1, the NR V2X channel
bandwidths for each operating band is specified in Table 7.2.3-1.

Table 7.2.3-1: V2X inter-band con-current configurations

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  V2X con-current operating band Configuration   NR Bands   SCS kHz   5 MHz   10\   15 MHz   20\   30\   40\   50\   Maximum bandwidth \[MHz\]   Bandwidth combination set
                                                                              MHz            MHz   MHz   MHz   MHz                               
  ---------------------------------------------- ---------- --------- ------- ----- -------- ----- ----- ----- ----- --------------------------- ---------------------------
  V2X\_n71A-n47A                                 n71        15        Yes     Yes   Yes      Yes                     **60**                      **0**

                                                            30                Yes   Yes      Yes                                                 

                                                            60                                                                                   

                                                 n47        15                Yes            Yes   Yes   Yes                                     

                                                            30                Yes            Yes   Yes   Yes                                     

                                                            60                Yes            Yes   Yes   Yes                                     
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

7.3 Channel arrangement
-----------------------

### 7.3.1 Channel arrangement in FR1

#### 7.3.1.1 Channel raster

#### 7.3.1.1.1 NR-ARFCN and channel raster 

The NR-ARFCN and channel raster defined in subclause 5.4.2.1 in
TS38.101-1 are applied for NR V2X.

For NR V2X UE, the reference frequency can be shifted by configuration.

F~REF\_V2X~ = F~REF~ + Δ~shift~ + N \* 5 kHz

where

> Δ~shift~ = 0 kHz or 7.5 kHz indicated in IE (*frequencyShift7p5khz*),
> and
>
> N can be set as one of following values {-1, 0, 1}, are signalled by
> the network in higher layer parameters or configured by
> pre-configuration parameters.

##### 7.3.1.1.2 Channel raster to resource element mapping

Channel raster to resource element mapping defined in subclause 5.4.2.2
in TS38.101-1 are applied for NR V2X.

##### 7.3.1.1.3 Channel raster entries for each operating band

The channel raster entries for each operating band defined in subclause
5.4.2.3 in TS38.101-1 are applied for NR V2X. The RF channel positions
on the channel raster in each NR V2X operating band are given through
the applicable NR-ARFCN in Table 7.3.1.1-1, using the channel raster to
resource element mapping in subclause 7.3.1.1.2.

For NR V2X operating band n47, ΔF~Raster~ = *I* × ΔF~Global~, where *I ϵ
{1}.* Every *I^th^* NR‑ARFCN within the operating band are applicable
for the channel raster within the operating band and the step size for
the channel raster in table 7.3.1.1-1 is given as \<*I*\>.

Table 7.3.1.1-1: Applicable NR-ARFCN for NR V2X operating band

+-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| NR operating    | ΔF~Raster~ | Uplink range of | Downlink range  |
| band            |            | N~REF~          | of N~REF~       |
|                 | (kHz)      |                 |                 |
|                 |            | (First --       | (First --       |
|                 |            | \<Step size\>   | \<Step size\>   |
|                 |            | -- Last)        | -- Last)        |
+=================+============+=================+=================+
| n47             | 15         | 790334 -- \<1\> | 790334 -- \<1\> |
|                 |            | -- 795000       | -- 795000       |
+-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+
|                 |            |                 |                 |
+-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+
|                 |            |                 |                 |
+-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+

#### 7.3.1.2 Synchronization raster 

There is no synchronization raster definition for NR V2X for both
licensed bands and unlicensed bands.

### 7.3.2 Channel arrangement in FR2

8 Transmitter characteristics
=============================

8.1 NR V2X UE Tx requirements in FR1
------------------------------------

When a NR V2X UE is TDM operating between NR SL and LTE SL at n47, the
NR V2X UE need to satisfy the individual V2X Tx requirements of each
RAT. For V2X applications the transmitter characteristics are specified
at UE antenna connector without any external components that may be used
to relocate the antenna away from the UE as shown in Figure 8.1-1.

Figure 8.1-1 shows a V2X integration block diagram with an example set
of components external to the UE such as cables and compensator devices.

![](media/image41.png){width="5.03076990376203in"
height="1.1075109361329833in"}

Figure 8.1-1 An Example of V2X UE intergrataion block diagram

### 8.1.1 Maximum output power for NR V2X UE

The following V2X UE Power Classes define the maximum output power for
any transmission bandwidth within the channel bandwidth. The period of
measurement shall be at least one sub frame (1ms).

Table 8.1-1: V2X UE Power Class

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NR    | Class | Tole  | Class | Tole  | Class | Tole  | Class | Tole  |
| band  | 1     | rance | 2     | rance | 3     | rance | 4     | rance |
|       | (dBm) | (dB)  | (dBm) | (dB)  | (dBm) | (dB)  | (dBm) | (dB)  |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| ...   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| n38   |       |       |       |       | 23    | +2/-3 |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| n47   |       |       |       |       | 23    | +2/-3 |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1: NR |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| n47   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| used  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NR    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| V2X   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Ser   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| vice. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| P~P   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| owerC |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lass~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ma    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ximum |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| power |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| spec  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ified |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| wi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| thout |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| aking |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| into  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ac    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| count |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tole  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rance |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

### 8.1.2 UE maximum output power reduction

The following assumption can serve as a starting point for MPR
simulation assumptions as shown in Table 8.1.2-1 and Table 8.1.2-2.

Table 8.1.2-1: MPR simulation assumption for NR V2X

+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| parameter            | Assumption                                   |
+======================+==============================================+
| center frequency     | 2.7GHz/5.9GHz                                |
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| Bandwidth            | 10/20/30/40MHz                               |
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| Maximum output power | 23dBm                                        |
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| numerology           | 15 kHz/30kHz/60kHz                           |
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| Modulation           | QPSK/16QAM/64QAM/256QAM                      |
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| Waveform             | CP-OFDM                                      |
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| Carrier leakage      | 25dBc                                        |
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| IQ image             | 25dBc                                        |
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| CIM3                 | 45dBc or 60dBc                               |
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| PA calibration       | PA calibrated to deliver -30dBc ACLR for a   |
|                      | fully allocated RBs in 20MHz QPSK DFT-       |
|                      | S-OFDM waveform at 1 dB MPR.                 |
|                      |                                              |
|                      | This is based to share PA between LTE V2X    |
|                      | and NR V2X at 5.9GHz as worst case.          |
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+

For NR V2X, simultaneous transmission of PSCCH and PSSCH in the same
subframe is supported. The following constraints in table 8.1.2-2 can be
assumed based on current RAN1's agreement.

Table 8.1.2-2: MPR simulation assumption based on RAN1's agreement

  Items                                        Assumption
  -------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Allowed sub-channel sizes                    • Support {10, 15, 20, 25, 50, 75, 100} PRBs for possible sub-channel size.
  Allowed L~CRB~ allocation                    10,15,20,25,30,40,45,50,60,70,75,80,90,100,105,110,120,130,135,140,150,160,165,170,175,180,190,195,200,210
  Regarding PSCCH / PSSCH multiplexing         ![](media/image42.png){width="2.2534722222222223in" height="0.8069444444444445in"}
  PSCCH size                                   10RB\*3 Symbols
  PSD offset of X dB between PSCCH and PSSCH   0dB

For simultaneous transmission of PSFCH, RAN4 assumed as follow

The baseline MPR simulation assumptions for multiple PSFCH transmission

1 RB per user

Both Non-contiguous PSFCH RB allocation and contiguous PSFCH allocation
are allowed

MPR will be derived by non-contiguous PSFCH RB allocation

Total power of all users equals 23dBm

All users have the same power per RB

Simulation parameters as per Table 8.1.2-1 and Table 8.1.2-2

Feedback sequences are per Section 5.2 TS 38.211

The MPR will be specified as a formula or table based on number of
allocated RBs.

PSFCH generation shall be based on existing RAN1 agreements

Assumption of N in RAN4 is only for MPR simulation purpose, the final
number is up to RAN1 decision

Based on the simulation, RAN4 specify MPR requirements as follow

> When UE is configured for NR V2X sidelink transmissions non-concurrent
> with NR uplink transmissions for NR V2X operating bands specified in
> Table 8.1-1, this subclause specifies the allowed Maximum Power
> Reduction (MPR) power for NR V2X physical channels and signals due to
> PSCCH and PSSCH simultaneous transmission.

#### 8.1.2.1 MPR for Power class 3 V2X UE

> For contiguous allocation of PSCCH and PSSCH simultaneous
> transmission, the allowed MPR for the maximum output power for NR V2X
> physical channels PSCCH and PSSCH shall be specified as inner/outer RB
> allocations in Table 8.1.2.1-1 for power class 3.
>
> Table 8.1.2.1-1: Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for power class 3 V2X
> (Contiguous PSCCH and PSSCH transmission)

  **Modulation**   **Channel bandwidth/MPR (dB)**                              
  ---------------- -------------------------------- -------------------------- -------
                   **Outer RB allocations**         **Inner RB allocations**   
  CP-OFDM          QPSK                             ≤ 4.5                      ≤ 2.5
                   16QAM                            ≤ 4.5                      ≤ 2.5
                   64 QAM                           ≤ 4.5                      
                   256 QAM                          ≤ 7.0                      

> Where the following parameters are defined to specify valid RB
> allocation ranges for Outer and Inner RB allocations:
>
> N~RB~ is the maximum number of RBs for a given Channel bandwidth and
> sub-carrier spacing defined in Table 5.3.2-1 in TS38.101-1.
>
> RB~Start,Low~ = max(1, floor(L~CRB~/2))
>
> where max() indicates the largest value of all arguments and floor(x)
> is the greatest integer less than or equal to x.

RB~Start,High~ = N~RB~ -- RB~Start,Low~ -- L~CRB~

> The RB allocation is an Inner RB allocation if the following
> conditions are met

RB~Start,Low~ ≤ RB~Start~ ≤ RB~Start,High~, and

L~CRB~ ≤ ceil(N~RB~/2)

> where ceil(x) is the smallest integer greater than or equal to x.
>
> The RB allocation is an Outer RB allocation for all other allocations
> which are not an Inner RB allocation.
>
> For single V2X UE's PSFCH transmission for PC3 NR V2X UE, the required
> MPR is defined as follow
>
> MPR\_~PSFCH~ = 3.5 dB
>
> For contiguous and non-contiguous allocation for simultaneous PSFCH
> transmission for PC3 NR V2X UE, the required MPR are specified as
> follow
>
> MPR\_~PSFCH~ = CEIL {M~A\_PSFCH~, 0.5}
>
> Where M~A~ is defined as follows
>
> M~A\_PSFCH~ = 7.5 ; 0.00 \< N~Gap~/N~RB~ ≤ 0.55
>
> = 12.0 ; 0.55 \< N~Gap~/N~RB~ ≤ 1.0
>
> Where
>
> N~Gap~ is the gap RB amount between RB~start~ and RB~end~ for
> contiguous and non-contiguous allocation simultaneous PSFCH
> transmission. (N~Gap~ = RB~end~ - RB~start~)
>
> CEIL{M~A,~ 0.5} means rounding upwards to closest 0.5dB.
>
> The allowed MPR for the maximum output power for V2X physical channels
> on S-SSB transmission are specified as follow
>
> Table 8.1.2.1-2: Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for S-SSB transmission
> for power class 3 V2X

  **Channel**                                                             **MPR (dB)**                  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------- -----------------------------
                                                                          **Outer RB allocations^1^**   **Inner RB allocations^1^**
  S-SSB                                                                   ≤ 6.0                         ≤ 2.5
  NOTE 1: Inner and Outer RB allocations are defined in section 8.1.2.1                                 

### 8.1.3 UE maximum output power with additional requirements

To comply the EN 302 571 standard emission mask, RAN4 need to derive
A-MPR requirements considering with the additional A-SEM and A-SE
requirements in EN 302 571 standard as shown in Table 8.1.3-1 and Table
8.1.3-2.

NR V2X UE shall satisfy the additional SEM and additional SE
requirements when NS\_33 is configured from pre-configured radio
parameters or the cell and the indication from upper layers has
indicated was informed.

Table 8.1.3-1: Additional SEM requirements for 10MHz channel bandwidth

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Spectrum emission    |                      |                      |
| limit (dBm EIRP)/    |                      |                      |
| Channel bandwidth    |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Δf~OOB~              | 10 MHz               | Measurement          |
|                      |                      | bandwidth            |
| (MHz)                |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| ± 0-0.5              | \[$- 13 -            | 100 kHz              |
|                      | 12\left( \frac{\left |                      |
|                      | | \mathrm{\Delta}\te |                      |
|                      | xt{fOOB} \right|}{\t |                      |
|                      | ext{MHz}} \right)$\] |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| ± 0.5-5              | \[$- 1               | 100 kHz              |
|                      | 9 - \frac{16}{9}\lef |                      |
|                      | t( \frac{\left| \mat |                      |
|                      | hrm{\Delta}\text{fOO |                      |
|                      | B} \right|}{\text{MH |                      |
|                      | z}} - 0.5 \right)$\] |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| ± 5-10               | \[$- 27 - 2\lef      | 100 kHz              |
|                      | t( \frac{\left| \mat |                      |
|                      | hrm{\Delta}\text{fOO |                      |
|                      | B} \right|}{\text{MH |                      |
|                      | z}} - 5.0 \right)$\] |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

NOTE 1: As a general rule, the resolution bandwidth of the measuring
equipment should be equal to the measurement bandwidth. However, to
improve measurement accuracy, sensitivity and efficiency, the resolution
bandwidth may be smaller than the measurement bandwidth. When the
resolution bandwidth is smaller than the measurement bandwidth, the
result should be integrated over the measurement bandwidth in order to
obtain the equivalent noise bandwidth of the measurement bandwidth.

NOTE 2: Additional SEM for V2X overrides any other requirements in
frequency range 5855-5950MHz.

NOTE 3: The EIRP requirement is converted to conducted requirement
depend on the supported post antenna connector gain G~post\ connector~
declared by the UE following the principle described in annex G in
TS38.101-1.

Table 8.1.3-2: Additional SE requirements

+--------+--------+--------+----+--------+--------+---+--------+
| n47    | E-UTRA | FD     | \- | FDL    | -50    | 1 |        |
|        | Band   | L\_low |    | \_high |        |   |        |
|        | 1, 3,  |        |    |        |        |   |        |
|        | 5, 7,  |        |    |        |        |   |        |
|        | 8, 22, |        |    |        |        |   |        |
|        | 26,    |        |    |        |        |   |        |
|        | 28,    |        |    |        |        |   |        |
|        | 34,    |        |    |        |        |   |        |
|        | 39,    |        |    |        |        |   |        |
|        | 40,    |        |    |        |        |   |        |
|        | 41,    |        |    |        |        |   |        |
|        | 42,    |        |    |        |        |   |        |
|        | 44,    |        |    |        |        |   |        |
|        | 45,    |        |    |        |        |   |        |
|        | 65,    |        |    |        |        |   |        |
|        | 68,    |        |    |        |        |   |        |
|        | 72, 73 |        |    |        |        |   |        |
|        |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
|        | NR     |        |    |        |        |   |        |
|        | band   |        |    |        |        |   |        |
|        | n77,   |        |    |        |        |   |        |
|        | n78 ,  |        |    |        |        |   |        |
|        | n79    |        |    |        |        |   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+----+--------+--------+---+--------+
|        | Fre    | 5925   | \- | 5950   | -30    | 1 | 38,    |
|        | quency |        |    |        | EIRP   |   | 40, 43 |
|        | range  |        |    |        |        |   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+----+--------+--------+---+--------+
|        | Fre    | 5815   | \- | 5855   | -30    | 1 | 38, 43 |
|        | quency |        |    |        | EIRP   |   |        |
|        | range  |        |    |        |        |   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+----+--------+--------+---+--------+
| NOTE   |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| 38:    |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| Appl   |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| icable |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| when   |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| NS\_33 |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| or     |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| NS\_34 |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| is     |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| conf   |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| igured |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| by the |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| pr     |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| e-conf |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| igured |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| radio  |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| param  |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| eters. |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
|        |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| NOTE   |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| 40: In |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| the    |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| fre    |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| quency |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| range  |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| x-59   |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| 50MHz, |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| SE     |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| requi  |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| rement |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| of     |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| -30d   |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| Bm/MHz |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| should |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| be     |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| ap     |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| plied; |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| where  |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| x =    |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| max    |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| (5925, |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| fc +   |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| 15),   |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| where  |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| fc is  |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| the    |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| c      |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| hannel |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| centre |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| freq   |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| uency. |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
|        |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| NOTE   |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| 43:    |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| The    |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| EIRP   |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| requi  |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| rement |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| is     |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| con    |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| verted |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| to     |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| con    |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| ducted |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| requi  |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| rement |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| depend |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| on the |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| sup    |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| ported |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| post   |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| a      |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| ntenna |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| con    |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| nector |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| gain   |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| G~post |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| \ conn |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| ector~ |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| de     |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| clared |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| by the |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| UE     |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| fol    |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| lowing |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| the    |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| pri    |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| nciple |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| des    |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| cribed |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| in     |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| annex  |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
| I.     |        |        |    |        |        |   |        |
+--------+--------+--------+----+--------+--------+---+--------+

Also, FCC had regulatory requirements for 40MHz in ITS spectrum as shown
in Table 8.1.3-3

Table 8.1.3-3: Additional SEM requirements for 40MHz channel bandwidth
(fc =5885 MHz)

  Δf~OOB~ (MHz)   Emission Limit (dBm)   Measurement Bandwidth
  --------------- ---------------------- -----------------------
  ±0 - 2          -32                    100kHz
  ±2-10           -36                    100kHz
  ±10-20          -38                    100kHz
  ±20-40          -43                    100kHz
  ±40 - 100       -50                    100kHz

To comply the regional regulatory requirements, RAN4 specify the A-MPR
requirements according to different network signalling by pre-configured
radio parameters or the cell and the indication from upper layers has
indicated to NR V2X UE.

The allowed additional Maximum Power Reduction (A-MPR) for the maximum
output power due to higher order modulation and transmit bandwidth
configuration (resource blocks) will be specified in TS38.101-1 as
below.

Table 8.1.3-4: Additional Maximum Power Reduction (A-MPR) for NR V2X

+----------+----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| Network  | Requ     | NR Band | Channel  | R        | A-MPR    |
| Si       | irements |         | b        | esources | (dB)     |
| gnalling | (su      |         | andwidth | Blocks   |          |
| value    | bclause) |         | (MHz)    | (        |          |
|          |          |         |          | *N*~RB~) |          |
+==========+==========+=========+==========+==========+==========+
| NS\_33   | Table    | n47     | 10       | Table    |          |
|          | 8.1.3-1  |         |          | 8        |          |
|          |          |         |          | .1.3.1-1 |          |
|          | (A-SEM)  |         |          |          |          |
|          |          |         |          | Table    |          |
|          | Table    |         |          | 8        |          |
|          | 8.1.3-2  |         |          | .1.3.1-2 |          |
|          |          |         |          |          |          |
|          | (A-SE)   |         |          | Table    |          |
|          |          |         |          | 8        |          |
|          |          |         |          | .1.3.1-3 |          |
|          |          |         |          |          |          |
|          |          |         |          | Table    |          |
|          |          |         |          | 8        |          |
|          |          |         |          | .1.3.1-4 |          |
+----------+----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| NS\_52   | Table    | n47     | 40       | Table    |          |
|          | 8.1.3-3  |         |          | 8        |          |
|          |          |         |          | .1.3.2-1 |          |
|          | (A-SEM)  |         |          |          |          |
|          |          |         |          | Table    |          |
|          |          |         |          | 8        |          |
|          |          |         |          | .1.3.2-2 |          |
|          |          |         |          |          |          |
|          |          |         |          | Table    |          |
|          |          |         |          | 8        |          |
|          |          |         |          | .1.3.2-3 |          |
+----------+----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| NS\_XX   | Table    | n47     | 10       | Table    |          |
|          | 8.1.3-1  |         |          | 8        |          |
|          |          |         |          | .1.3.3-1 |          |
|          | (A-SEM)  |         |          |          |          |
|          |          |         |          | Table    |          |
|          |          |         |          | 8        |          |
|          |          |         |          | .1.3.3-2 |          |
|          |          |         |          |          |          |
|          |          |         |          | Table    |          |
|          |          |         |          | 8        |          |
|          |          |         |          | .1.3.3-3 |          |
+----------+----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+

#### 8.1.3.1 AMPR for NS\_33

When NS\_33 is indicated by the network or pre-configured radio
parameters for NR V2X UE, the additional maximum output power reduction
specified as

A-MPR = CEIL {M~A~, 0.5}

Where M~A~ is defined as follows

M~A~ = A-MPR~Base~ + G~post\ connector~\* A-MPRStep

CEIL{M~A,~ 0.5} means rounding upwards to closest 0.5dB.

A-MPR~Base~ which is specified for PSCCH and PSSCH
transmission\\S-SSB\\PSFCH below is allowed when network signalling
value is provided*.* A-MPR~Base~ is the default A-MPR value when no
G~post\ connector~ is declared. The supported post antenna connector
gain G~post\ connector~ is declared by the UE following the principle
described in 38.101-1.

For the contiguous PSSCH and PSCCH transmission when NS\_33 is indicated
by the network or pre-configured radio parameters for NR V2X UE, the NR
UE allow the follow A-MPR requirements.

Table 8.1.3.1-1: A-MPR for PSSCH/PSCCH by NS\_33 (at Fc =5860MHz)

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| *        | **R      | **Start  | **A-M    |          |          |
| *Carrier | esources | Re       | PR~base~ |          |          |
| frequenc | Blocks   | source** | (dB)**   |          |          |
| y(MHz)** | (*L*     |          |          |          |          |
|          | ~CRB~)** | *        |          |          |          |
|          |          | *Block** |          |          |          |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+
|          |          |          | **QPSK   | *        | **       |
|          |          |          | /16QAM** | *64QAM** | 256QAM** |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5860     | ≥ 10 and | 0        | ≤ 24     |          |          |
|          | ≤ 15     |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          |          | ≥ 1 and  | ≤19      |          |          |
|          |          | ≤ 3      |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | ≥ 10 and | ≥ 26 and | ≤6       |          |          |
|          | ≤ 15     | ≤ 38     |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | ≥ 10 and | ≥ 12 and | ≤11      |          |          |
|          | ≤ 20     | ≤ 14     |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          |          | ≥ 15 and | ≤9.5     |          |          |
|          |          | ≤ 19     |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          |          | ≥ 20 and | ≤8.0     |          |          |
|          |          | ≤ 25     |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | ≥ 10 and | ≥ 4 and  | ≤ 16     |          |          |
|          | ≤ 30     | ≤7       |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          |          | ≥ 8 and  | ≤ 13.5   |          |          |
|          |          | ≤ 11     |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | ≥ 20 and | ≥ 0 and  | ≤ 22     |          |          |
|          | ≤ 30     | ≤ 3      |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 25 and   | ≥ 16 and | ≤ 9.5    |          |          |
|          | 30       | ≤ 21     |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          |          | ≥ 22 and | ≤ 8.0    |          |          |
|          |          | ≤ 27     |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | ≥ 25 and | ≥ 12 and | ≤ 12     |          |          |
|          | ≤ 40     | ≤ 15     |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 40 and   | 0 and 1  | ≤ 19     |          |          |
|          | 45       |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          |          | ≥ 2 and  | ≤ 16     |          |          |
|          |          | ≤ 5      |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          |          | ≥ 6 and  | ≤ 13.5   |          |          |
|          |          | ≤ 11     |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | ≥ 50     | ≥ 0      | ≤ 16     |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Note 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| A-M      |          |          |          |          |          |
| PR~step~ |          |          |          |          |          |
| =1.2 dB  |          |          |          |          |          |
| used for |          |          |          |          |          |
| R        |          |          |          |          |          |
| B~start~ |          |          |          |          |          |
| 0 and 1  |          |          |          |          |          |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |
| A-M      |          |          |          |          |          |
| PR~step~ |          |          |          |          |          |
| =0.7 dB  |          |          |          |          |          |
| used for |          |          |          |          |          |
| all      |          |          |          |          |          |
| other    |          |          |          |          |          |
| R        |          |          |          |          |          |
| B~start~ |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

Table 8.1.3.1-2: A-MPR for PSSCH/PSCCH by NS\_33 at other carrier
frequency

  **Carrier frequency(MHz)**                                              **RB allocations**   **A-MPR~base~ (dB)**   **A-MPR~step~ (dB)**                            
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------- ---------------------- ----------- ------------ --
                                                                                               **QPSK**               **16QAM**              **64QAM**   **256QAM**   
  5870, 5880, 5890, 5900, 5910, 5920                                      Inner                ≤ 3.0                  ≤ 5.0                  ≤ 6.0       0.5          
                                                                          Outer                ≤ 4.5                                                                  
  NOTE 1: Inner and Outer RB allocations are defined in section 8.1.2.1                                                                                               

For the simultaneous PSFCH transmission when NS\_33 is indicated by the
network or pre-configured radio parameters for NR V2X UE, the NR UE
allow the follow A-MPR requirements

Table 8.1.3.1-3: A-MPR for simultaneous PSFCH by NS\_33

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| *        | **Center | **RB     | **A-M    | **A-M    |          |   |
| *Channel | Fre      | allo     | PR~Base~ | PR~step~ |          |   |
| Ban      | quency** | cation** | (dB)**   | (dB)**   |          |   |
| dwidth** |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          | **\      |          |          |          |          |   |
| **\      | [MHz\]** |          |          |          |          |   |
| [MHz\]** |          |          |          |          |          |   |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+===+
|          |          |          | 0 ≤      | 0.15≤    | 0.3≤     |   |
|          |          |          | N~Gap~ / | N~Gap~ / | N~Gap~ / |   |
|          |          |          | N~RB~ \< | N~RB~ \< | N~RB~ ≤  |   |
|          |          |          | 0.15     | 0.3      | 1        |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| 10       | **5860** | N~RB~ =1 | 19.0     | 1.0      |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          | N~RB~ \> | 22.0     |          |          |   |
|          |          | 1        |          |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          | 5870,    | N~RB~ =1 | 5        | 0.8      |          |   |
|          | 5880,    |          |          |          |          |   |
|          | 5890,    |          |          |          |          |   |
|          | 5900,    |          |          |          |          |   |
|          | 5910,    |          |          |          |          |   |
|          | 5920     |          |          |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          | N~RB~ \> | 14       | 7        | 18.5     |   |
|          |          | 1        |          |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| Note 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| N~Gap~   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| is the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| gap RB   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| amount   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| between  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| R        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| B~start~ |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| RB~end~  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| co       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ntiguous |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| non-co   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ntiguous |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| al       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| location |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| simu     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ltaneous |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| PSFCH    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| trans    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| mission. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| (N~Gap~  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| =        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| RB~end~  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| -        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| RB       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ~start~) |          |          |          |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+

For the S-SSB transmission when NS\_33 is indicated by the network or
pre-configured radio parameters for NR V2X UE, the NR UE allow the
follow A-MPR requirements

Table 8.1.3.1-4: A-MPR for S-SSB transmission by NS\_33

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Carrier      | **RBStart \*   | **A-MPR~Base~  | **AMPR~Step~   |
| Frequency      | 12\*SCS**      | (dB)**         | (dB)**         |
| (MHz)**        |                |                |                |
|                | **\[MHz\]**    |                |                |
+================+================+================+================+
| 5860           | ≤1.0           | ≤ 25           | 0.6            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | \>1.0 and ≤2.0 | ≤ 19           |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | \>2.0 and      | ≤ 12           |                |
|                | ≤3.24          |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | \>3.24 and     | ≤ 10           |                |
|                | ≤3.6           |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | \>3.6          | ≤ 9            |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 5870, 5880,    | ≤1.0           | ≤ 7.0          | 0.85           |
| 5890, 5900,    |                |                |                |
| 5910, 5920     |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | \>1.0 and ≤1.6 | ≤ 6.5          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | \>1.6 and ≤2.6 | ≤ 5.8          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | \>2.6 and      | ≤ 4.5          |                |
|                | ≤3.24          |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | \>3.24 and     | ≤ 5.5          |                |
|                | ≤4.32          |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | \>4.32         | ≤ 6.5          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

#### 8.1.3.2 AMPR for NS\_52

When NS\_52 is indicated by the network or pre-configured radio
parameters for NR V2X UE, the additional maximum output power reduction
specified as

A-MPR = CEIL {M~A~, 0.5}

Where M~A~ is defined as follows

M~A~ = A-MPR

CEIL{M~A,~ 0.5} means rounding upwards to closest 0.5dB.

For the contiguous PSSCH and PSCCH transmission when NS\_52 is indicated
by the network or pre-configured radio parameters for NR V2X UE, the NR
UE allow the follow A-MPR requirements.

Table 8.1.3.2-1: A-MPR for PSSCH/PSCCH by NS\_52

  Carrier frequency(MHz)   Modulation   A-MPR(dB)              
  ------------------------ ------------ ----------- ---------- ----------
                                        Region 1    Region 2   Region 3
  5885                     QPSK         ≤ 13.5      ≤ 8.0      ≤ 5.5
                           16QAM                    ≤ 8.0      ≤ 5.5
                           64QAM                    ≤ 8.5      ≤ 5.5
                           256QAM                   ≤ 8.5      ≤ 6.0

**Where the following parameters are defined to specify valid RB
allocation ranges for Region1, Region2 and Region3 according to RB
allocations:**

Table 8.1.3.2-1a: A-MPR Region definitions for PSSCH/PSCCH by NS\_52

  **Channel Bandwidth, MHz**   **Carrier frequency(MHz)**   **A-MPR parameters for region definitions**                                                                            **A-MPR**                       
  ---------------------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------- ----------
                                                            **RB~start~ or RB~end~**                                                                                               **L~CRB~**                      
  40                           5885                         **RB~start~ ≤ floor(N~RB~\*0.2) or RB~end~ ≥ N~RB~ - floor(N~RB~\*0.2)**                                               **L~CRB~ ≤floor(N~RB~\*0.2)**   Region 1
                                                            The RB allocation is in Region 2 allocation for all other allocations which are not a Region1 or Region3 allocation.   Region 2                        
                                                            **floor(N~RB~ /3.5) ≤ RB~start~ ≤ N~RB~ --floor(N~RB~ /3.5) -- L~CRB\ ~**                                              **L~CRB~ ≤ceil(N~RB~/3.5)**     Region 3

> **N~RB~ is the maximum number of RBs for a given Channel bandwidth and
> sub-carrier spacing defined in Table 5.3.2-1 \[3\].**

For the simultaneous PSFCH transmission when NS\_52 is indicated by the
network or pre-configured radio parameters for NR V2X UE, the NR UE
allow the follow A-MPR requirements.

Table 8.1.3.2-2: A-MPR for simultaneous PSFCH by NS\_52

  **Channel Bandwidth \[MHz\]**   **Carrier frequency \[MHz\]**   **A-MPR (dB)**
  ------------------------------- ------------------------------- ----------------
  40 MHz                          5885                            **≤** 23.5

For the S-SSB transmission when NS\_52 is indicated by the network or
pre-configured radio parameters for NR V2X UE, the NR UE allow the
follow A-MPR requirements

Table 8.1.3.2-3: A-MPR for S-SSB transmission by NS\_52

+-----------------------------+--------------------------+----------------+
| **Carrier Frequency (MHz)** | **RB~Start~ \* 12\*SCS** | **A-MPR (dB)** |
|                             |                          |                |
|                             | **\[MHz\]**              |                |
+=============================+==========================+================+
| 5885                        | ≤ 7                      | **≤** 16.0     |
+-----------------------------+--------------------------+----------------+
|                             | \> 7 and ≤ 12            | **≤** 10.5     |
+-----------------------------+--------------------------+----------------+
|                             | \> 12 and ≤ 19           | **≤** 4.0      |
+-----------------------------+--------------------------+----------------+
|                             | \> 19 and ≤ 25           | **≤** 10.5     |
+-----------------------------+--------------------------+----------------+
|                             | \> 25                    | **≤** 16.0     |
+-----------------------------+--------------------------+----------------+

#### 8.1.3.3 AMPR for NS\_xx

When NS\_xx is indicated by the network or pre-configured radio
parameters for NR V2X UE, the additional maximum output power reduction
specified as

A-MPR = CEIL {M~A~, 0.5}

Where M~A~ is defined as follows

M~A~ = A-MPR

CEIL{M~A,~ 0.5} means rounding upwards to closest 0.5dB.

For the contiguous PSSCH and PSCCH transmission when NS\_xx is indicated
by the network or pre-configured radio parameters for NR V2X UE, the NR
UE allow the follow A-MPR requirements.

Table 8.1.3.3-1: A-MPR for PSSCH/PSCCH by NS\_xx

  **Carrier frequency(MHz)**                                              **RB allocations**   **A-MPR (dB)**                           
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------- ----------- ----------- ------------
                                                                                               **QPSK**         **16QAM**   **64QAM**   **256QAM**
  5860, 5870, 5880, 5890, 5900, 5910, 5920                                Inner                ≤ 3.0            ≤ 5.0       ≤ 6.0       
                                                                          Outer                ≤ 4.5                                    
  NOTE 1: Inner and Outer RB allocations are defined in section 8.1.2.1                                                                 

For the simultaneous PSFCH transmission when NS\_xx is indicated by the
network or pre-configured radio parameters for NR V2X UE, the NR UE
allow the follow A-MPR requirements

Table 8.1.3.3-2: A-MPR for simultaneous PSFCH by NS\_xx

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| *        | **Center | **RB     | **A-M    | **A-M    |          |   |
| *Channel | Fre      | allo     | PR~Base~ | PR~step~ |          |   |
| Ban      | quency** | cation** | (dB)**   | (dB)**   |          |   |
| dwidth** |          |          |          |          |          |   |
|          | **\      |          |          |          |          |   |
| **\      | [MHz\]** |          |          |          |          |   |
| [MHz\]** |          |          |          |          |          |   |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+===+
|          |          |          | 0 ≤      | 0.15≤    | 0.3≤     |   |
|          |          |          | N~Gap~ / | N~Gap~ / | N~Gap~ / |   |
|          |          |          | N~RB~ \< | N~RB~ \< | N~RB~ ≤  |   |
|          |          |          | 0.15     | 0.3      | 1        |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| 10       | 5860,    | N~RB~ =1 | 5        | 0.8      |          |   |
|          | 5870,    |          |          |          |          |   |
|          | 5880,    |          |          |          |          |   |
|          | 5890,    |          |          |          |          |   |
|          | 5900,    |          |          |          |          |   |
|          | 5910,    |          |          |          |          |   |
|          | 5920     |          |          |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
|          |          | N~RB~ \> | 14       | 7        | 18.5     |   |
|          |          | 1        |          |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
| Note 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| N~Gap~   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| is the   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| gap RB   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| amount   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| between  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| R        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| B~start~ |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| RB~end~  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| co       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ntiguous |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| non-co   |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ntiguous |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| al       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| location |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| simu     |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ltaneous |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| PSFCH    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| trans    |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| mission. |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| (N~Gap~  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| =        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| RB~end~  |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| -        |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| RB       |          |          |          |          |          |   |
| ~start~) |          |          |          |          |          |   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+

For the S-SSB transmission when NS\_xx is indicated by the network or
pre-configured radio parameters for NR V2X UE, the NR UE allow the
follow A-MPR requirements

Table 8.1.3.3-3: A-MPR for S-SSB transmission by NS\_xx

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Carrier      | **RBStart \*   | **A-MPR~Base~  | **AMPR~Step~   |
| Frequency      | 12\*SCS**      | (dB)**         | (dB)**         |
| (MHz)**        |                |                |                |
|                | **\[MHz\]**    |                |                |
+================+================+================+================+
| 5860, 5870,    | ≤1.0           | ≤ 7.0          | 0.85           |
| 5880, 5890,    |                |                |                |
| 5900, 5910,    |                |                |                |
| 5920           |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | \>1.0 and ≤1.6 | ≤ 6.5          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | \>1.6 and ≤2.6 | ≤ 5.8          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | \>2.6 and      | ≤ 4.5          |                |
|                | ≤3.24          |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | \>3.24 and     | ≤ 5.5          |                |
|                | ≤4.32          |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | \>4.32         | ≤ 6.5          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

### 8.1.4 Configured transmitted power for NR V2X UE

\[The NR V2X UE is allowed to set its configured maximum output power
P~CMAX,*c*~ for carrier f of serving cell *c* in each slot. The
configured maximum output power P~CMAX,*c*~ is set within the following
bounds:

P~CMAX\_L,f,*c*~ ≤ P~CMAX,f,*c*~ ≤ P~CMAX\_H,f,*c*~ with

P~CMAX\_L,f,\ *c*~ = MIN {P~EMAX,*c*~ -- ∆T~C,*c*~, (P~PowerClass~ --
ΔP~PowerClass~) ---- MAX(MAX(MPR*~c~* , A-MPR*~c~*)+ ΔT~IB,c~ +
∆T~C,*c*~ + ∆T~RxSRS~, P-MPR*~c~*), P~Regulatory,c~ }

P~CMAX\_H,f,\ *c*~ = MIN {P~EMAX,*c*~, (P~PowerClass~-- ΔP~PowerClass~),
P~Regulatory,c~ }

where

> \- P~CMAX,f,*c\ *~is configured for PSSCH\\PSCCH, S-SSB and PSFCH,
> respectively;
>
> \- For the total transmitted P~CMAX,PSSCH\\PSCCH~, P~CMAX,S-SSB~ and
> P~CMAX,PSFCH~, P~EMAX,c~ is the value given by IE *maxTxPower*,
> defined by \[TS 38.331\], when the UE is not associated with a serving
> cell on the NR V2X carrier .
>
> \- P~PowerClass~ is the maximum UE power specified in Table 6.2.1-1 in
> TS38.101-1 without taking into account the tolerance specified in the
> Table 6.2.1-1 in TS38.101-1;
>
> \- MPR*~c~* and A-MPR*~c~* for serving cell *c* are specified in
> subclause 6.2E.2 and subclause 6.2E.3 for PSSCH\\PSCCH, S-SSB and
> PSFCH in TS38.101-1, respectively;
>
> \-  ∆*T~IB,c~*, ∆T~C,*c*~, ∆T~RxSRS~, ∆P~Poweclass~ and P-MPR*~c~* are
> specified in subclause 6.2.4 in TS38.101-1
>
> \- P~Regulatory,c~ = 10 - G~post\ connector~ dBm the V2X UE is within
> the protected zone in EN 102. 792 of CEN DSRC tolling system and
> operating in Band n47; P~Regulatory,c~ = 33 - G~post\ connector~ dBm
> otherwise.

The maximum output power P*~CMAX,PSSCH~* and P*~CMAX,PSCCH~* are derived
from P~CMAX,c~ based on 0dB offset between PSSCH and PSCCH.

For the measured configured maximum output power P~UMAX,*c*~ for NR V2X
sidelink transmissions non-concurrent with NR uplink transmissions, the
same requirement as in subclause 6.2.4 in TS38.101-1 shall be applied.\]

### 8.1.5 Minimum output power for NR V2X UE

The minimum controlled output power of the NR V2X UE is defined as the
broadband transmit power of the UE, i.e. the power in the channel
bandwidth for all transmit bandwidth configurations (resource blocks),
when the power is set to a minimum value.

When UE is configured for NR V2X sidelink transmissions non-concurrent
with NR uplink transmissions for NR V2X operating bands in Table 8.1-1,
it is proposed that the existing requirements as specified for legacy NR
UE shall apply. The minimum output power is defined as the mean power in
at least one sub-frame 1 ms.

Table 8.1.5-1: Minimum output power

+-------------------+----------------------+-----------------------+
| Channel bandwidth | Minimum output power | Measurement bandwidth |
|                   |                      |                       |
| (MHz)             | (dBm)                | (MHz)                 |
+===================+======================+=======================+
| 10                | -30                  | 9.375                 |
+-------------------+----------------------+-----------------------+
| 20                | -30                  | 19.095                |
+-------------------+----------------------+-----------------------+
| 30                | -28.2                | 28.815                |
+-------------------+----------------------+-----------------------+
| 40                | -27                  | 38.895                |
+-------------------+----------------------+-----------------------+

### 8.1.6 Transmit OFF power NR V2X UE

Transmit OFF power is defined as the mean power when the transmitter is
OFF. The transmitter is considered to be OFF when the UE is not allowed
to transmit or during periods when the UE is not transmitting a
sub-frame. During DTX and measurements gaps, the UE is not considered to
be OFF.

When UE is configured for NR V2X sidelink transmissions non-concurrent
with NR uplink transmissions for NR V2X operating bands in Table 8.1-1,
it is proposed that the existing requirements as specified for legacy NR
UE shall apply. Transmit off power is defined as the mean power in at
least one sub-frame 1 ms.

Table 8.1.6-1: Transmit OFF power

+-------------------+--------------------+-----------------------+
| Channel bandwidth | Transmit OFF power | Measurement bandwidth |
|                   |                    |                       |
| (MHz)             | (dBm)              | (MHz)                 |
+===================+====================+=======================+
| 10                | -50                | 9.375                 |
+-------------------+--------------------+-----------------------+
| 20                | -50                | 19.095                |
+-------------------+--------------------+-----------------------+
| 30                | -50                | 28.815                |
+-------------------+--------------------+-----------------------+
| 40                | -50                | 38.895                |
+-------------------+--------------------+-----------------------+

### 8.1.7 ON/OFF time mask for NR V2X UE

For NR V2X service, additional requirements on ON/OFF time masks for V2X
physical channels and signals are specified in this clause.

#### 8.1.7.1 General time mask for NR V2X UE

The General ON/OFF time mask defines the observation period between the
Transmit OFF and ON power and between Transmit ON and OFF power for
PSCCH, and PSSCH transmissions in a subframe wherein the last symbol is
punctured to create a guard period.

![](media/image43.png){width="6.666666666666667in"
height="2.030217629046369in"}

Figure 8.1.7.1-1: General PSCCH/PSSCH time mask for NR V2X UE

#### 8.1.7.2 S-SSB time mask 

The S-SSB time mask is for NR V2X UE defines the observation period
between transmit OFF and ON S-PSS power and between transmit ON PSBCH
and OFF power in a slot, with last symbol punctured to create a guard
period.

![](media/image44.jpg){width="6.396237970253718in"
height="1.9478258967629047in"}

**Figure 8.1.7.2-1: S-SSB time mask for NR V2X UE**

#### 8.1.7.3 Additional Time mask for TDM operation between NR SL and LTE SL at n47

When a NR V2X UE is operated with TDM between NR SL and LTE SL at n47
without dual PA capability, the maximum SL switching time is defined as
150 us and the following SL interruption is allowed as specified in TS
38.133 clause 12.9.1:

When switch from E-UTRA V2X sidelink to NR V2X sidelink occurs in NR
slot 'n',

\- UE is not expected to transmit or receive on NR V2X sidelink on the
slot 'n'.

When switch from NR V2X sidelink to E-UTRA V2X sidelink occurs in NR
slot 'n-1',

\- UE is not expected to transmit or receive on NR V2X sidelink on the
slot 'n-1'.

When switch from NR V2X sidelink to E-UTRA V2X sidelink occurs in E-UTRA
subframe 'n',

\- UE is not expected to transmit or receive on E-UTRA V2X sidelink on
the subframe 'n'.

When switch from E-UTRA V2X sidelink to NR V2X sidelink occurs in E-UTRA
subframe 'n-1',

\- UE is not expected to transmit or receive E-UTRA on V2X sidelink on
the subframe 'n-1'.

So RAN4 will not specify the specific RF switching time requirements
during the switched period and also no RF test to verify the maximum SL
switching time is needed.

### 8.1.8 Power control for NR V2X UE

When UE is configured for NR V2X sidelink transmissions non-concurrent
with NR uplink transmissions for NR V2X operating bands in Table 8.1-1,
the requirements in sub-clause 8.1.8.1 apply for NR V2X transmission.

#### 8.1.8.1 Absolute power tolerance

The existing absolute power tolerance requirements of legacy NR UE shall
apply for V2X transmission.

Table 8.1.8.1-1: Absolute power tolerance

  Conditions   Tolerance
  ------------ -----------
  Normal       ± 9.0 dB

### 8.1.9 Transmit signal quality for NR V2X UE

#### 8.1.9.1 Frequency error

The UE modulated carrier frequency for NR V2X sidelink transmissions in
Table 8.1-1 shall be accurate to within ±0.1 PPM observed over a period
of 1 ms compared to the absolute frequency in case of using GNSS
synchronization source. The same requirements applied over a period of 1
ms compared to the carrier frequency received from the gNB or V2X
synchronization reference UE in case of using the gNB or V2X
synchronization reference UE sidelink synchronization signals.

#### 8.1.9.2 Transmit modulation quality

##### 8.1.9.2.1 Error Vector Magnitude

For V2X sidelink physical channels PSCCH and PSSCH, the Error Vector
Magnitude requirements shall be as specified for PUSCH in Table
8.1.9.2.1-1 for the corresponding modulation and transmission bandwidth
for NR V2X operating bands in Table 8.1-1. When sidelink transmissions
are shortened due to transmission gap of 1 symbol at the end of the
slot, the EVM measurement interval is reduced by one symbol,
accordingly.

Table 8.1.9.2.1-1: Minimum requirements for Error Vector Magnitude

  ----------- ------ ------------------- ----------------------------
  Parameter   Unit   Average EVM Level   Reference Signal EVM Level
  QPSK        \%     17.5                17.5
  16QAM       \%     12.5                12.5
  64QAM       \%     8                   8
  256QAM      \%     3.5                 3.5
  ----------- ------ ------------------- ----------------------------

Table 8.1.9.2.1-2: Parameters for Error Vector Magnitude

  ---------------------------- ------ ------------------------
  Parameter                    Unit   Level
  UE Output Power              dBm    ≥Table 8.1.5-1
  UE Output Power for 256QAM   dBm    ≥ Table 8.1.5-1 + 10dB
  Operating conditions                Normal conditions
  ---------------------------- ------ ------------------------

##### 8.1.9.2.2 Carrier leakage

It is proposed that no changes to the existing NR requirements for
carrier leakage are required for NR V2X UE for NR V2X operating bands in
Table 8.1-1.

##### 8.1.9.2.3 In-band emissions

For V2X sidelink physical channels PSCCH and PSSCH, In-band emissions
requirements of legacy NR UE in sub-clause 6.4.2.3 shall apply according
to the corresponding modulation and transmission bandwidth for NR V2X
operating bands in Table 8.1-1. When V2X transmissions are shortened due
to transmission gap of 1 symbol at the end of the slot, the In-band
emissions measurement interval is reduced by one symbol, accordingly.

##### 8.1.9.2.4 EVM equalizer spectrum flatness

The existing requirements for EVM equalizer spectrum flatness for NR UE
in sub-clause 6.4.2.4 in TS38.101-1 shall apply for NR V2X transmissions
for NR V2X operating bands in Table 8.1-1.

### 8.1.10 spectrum emission mask for V2X UE

For V2X, the existing NR general spectrum emission mask can be reused
for all 10MHz, 20MHz, 30MHz and 40MHz channel bandwidth. The spectrum
emission mask of the UE applies to frequencies (Δf~OOB~) starting from
the ± edge of the assigned NR channel bandwidth. For frequencies greater
than (Δf~OOB~), the power of any UE emission shall not exceed the levels
specified in Table 6.5.2.2-1in TS 38.101-1 for the specified channel
bandwidth for NR V2X operating bands in Table 8.1-1.

#### 8.1.10.1 Additional spectrum emission mask for V2X UE

In LTE V2X WI, RAN4 already studied the additional spectrum emission
mask in ITS band. So RAN4 reuse the additional spectrum emission mask in
session 6.6.2.2.4 and 6.6.2.2.7 in TS36.101 for LTE V2X UE at n47.

When \"NS\_33\" or "NS\_34" is indicated in the cell, the power of any
V2X UE emission shall not exceed the levels specified in Table
8.1.10.1-1.

Table 8.1.10.1-1: Additional spectrum mask requirements for 10MHz
channel bandwidth

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Spectrum emission    |                      |                      |
| limit (dBm EIRP)/    |                      |                      |
| Channel bandwidth    |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Δf~OOB~              | 10 MHz               | Measurement          |
|                      |                      | bandwidth            |
| (MHz)                |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| ± 0-0.5              | \[$- 13 -            | 100 kHz              |
|                      | 12\left( \frac{\left |                      |
|                      | | \mathrm{\Delta}\te |                      |
|                      | xt{fOOB} \right|}{\t |                      |
|                      | ext{MHz}} \right)$\] |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| ± 0.5-5              | \[$- 1               | 100 kHz              |
|                      | 9 - \frac{16}{9}\lef |                      |
|                      | t( \frac{\left| \mat |                      |
|                      | hrm{\Delta}\text{fOO |                      |
|                      | B} \right|}{\text{MH |                      |
|                      | z}} - 0.5 \right)$\] |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| ± 5-10               | \[$- 27 - 2\lef      | 100 kHz              |
|                      | t( \frac{\left| \mat |                      |
|                      | hrm{\Delta}\text{fOO |                      |
|                      | B} \right|}{\text{MH |                      |
|                      | z}} - 5.0 \right)$\] |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

When \"NS\_48" is indicated in the cell, the power of any V2X UE
emission shall not exceed the levels specified in Table 8.1.10.1-2.

Table 8.1.10.1-2: Additional spectrum mask requirements for 40MHz
channel bandwidth (fc =5885 MHz)

  Δf~OOB~ (MHz)   Emission Limit (dBm)   Measurement Bandwidth
  --------------- ---------------------- -----------------------
  ±0 - 2          -32                    100kHz
  ±2-10           -36                    100kHz
  ±10-20          -38                    100kHz
  ±20-40          -43                    100kHz
  ±40 - 100       -50                    100kHz

### 8.1.11 ACLR requirements for V2X UE

Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR) is the ratio of the filtered
mean power centred on the assigned channel frequency to the filtered
mean power centred on an adjacent channel frequency.

Based on co-existence simulation results, a 30dB ACLR can guarantee that
V2X co-exists well with DSRC, i.e. the PRR degradation of V2X to DSRC is
comparable with that of DSRC to DSRC. Hence the existing ACLR
requirement for licensed bands can be reused for NR V2X for NR V2X
operating bands in Table 8.1-1.

Table 8.1.11-1: ACLR for NR V2X

+--------+--------+-----+-----+--------+-----+--------+--------+--------+
|        | C      |     |     |        |     |        |        |        |
|        | hannel |     |     |        |     |        |        |        |
|        | ban    |     |     |        |     |        |        |        |
|        | dwidth |     |     |        |     |        |        |        |
|        | /ACLR1 |     |     |        |     |        |        |        |
|        | /      |     |     |        |     |        |        |        |
|        | Measu  |     |     |        |     |        |        |        |
|        | rement |     |     |        |     |        |        |        |
|        | ban    |     |     |        |     |        |        |        |
|        | dwidth |     |     |        |     |        |        |        |
+========+========+=====+=====+========+=====+========+========+========+
|        | 1.4    | 3.0 | 5   | 10     | 15  | 20     | 30     | 40     |
|        |        |     |     |        |     |        |        |        |
|        | MHz    | MHz | MHz | MHz    | MHz | MHz    | MHz    | MHz    |
+--------+--------+-----+-----+--------+-----+--------+--------+--------+
| ACLR1  |        |     |     | 30 dB  |     | 30 dB  | 30 dB  | 30 dB  |
+--------+--------+-----+-----+--------+-----+--------+--------+--------+
| NR V2X |        |     |     | 9.375  |     | 19.095 | 28.815 | 38.895 |
| c      |        |     |     | MHz    |     | MHz    | MHz    | MHz    |
| hannel |        |     |     |        |     |        |        |        |
| Measu  |        |     |     |        |     |        |        |        |
| rement |        |     |     |        |     |        |        |        |
| ban    |        |     |     |        |     |        |        |        |
| dwidth |        |     |     |        |     |        |        |        |
+--------+--------+-----+-----+--------+-----+--------+--------+--------+
| Ad     |        |     |     | +10    |     | +20    | +30    | +40    |
| jacent |        |     |     |        |     |        |        |        |
| c      |        |     |     | /      |     | /      | /      | /      |
| hannel |        |     |     |        |     |        |        |        |
| centre |        |     |     | -10    |     | -20    | -30    | -40    |
| fre    |        |     |     |        |     |        |        |        |
| quency |        |     |     |        |     |        |        |        |
| offset |        |     |     |        |     |        |        |        |
| \      |        |     |     |        |     |        |        |        |
| [MHz\] |        |     |     |        |     |        |        |        |
+--------+--------+-----+-----+--------+-----+--------+--------+--------+

### 8.1.12 Spurious emission for V2X UE

General spurious emission requirement for V2X operation should be
extended to 26GHz same with that in LAA BS. In addition, UE should also
meet regional requirement which defined in ETSI EN 302 571 as additional
spurious emission requirement for NR V2X operating bands in Table 8.1-1.

Table 8.1.12-1: Spurious emissions limits

+---------------------+---------------+---------------------+------+
| Frequency Range     | Maximum Level | Measurement         | NOTE |
|                     |               | bandwidth           |      |
+=====================+===============+=====================+======+
| 9 kHz ≤ f \< 150    | -36 dBm       | 1 kHz               |      |
| kHz                 |               |                     |      |
+---------------------+---------------+---------------------+------+
| 150 kHz ≤ f \< 30   | -36 dBm       | 10 kHz              |      |
| MHz                 |               |                     |      |
+---------------------+---------------+---------------------+------+
| 30 MHz ≤ f \< 1000  | -36 dBm       | 100 kHz             |      |
| MHz                 |               |                     |      |
+---------------------+---------------+---------------------+------+
| 1 GHz ≤ f \< 12.75  | -30 dBm       | 1 MHz               |      |
| GHz                 |               |                     |      |
+---------------------+---------------+---------------------+------+
| 12.75 GHz ≤ f \<    | -30 dBm       | 1 MHz               | 1    |
| 5^th^ harmonic of   |               |                     |      |
| the upper frequency |               |                     |      |
| edge of the UL      |               |                     |      |
| operating band in   |               |                     |      |
| GHz                 |               |                     |      |
+---------------------+---------------+---------------------+------+
| 12.75 GHz - 26 GHz  | -30 dBm       | 1 MHz               | 2    |
+---------------------+---------------+---------------------+------+
| NOTE 1: Applies for |               |                     |      |
| NR Band n22, Band   |               |                     |      |
| n42 and Band n43.   |               |                     |      |
|                     |               |                     |      |
| NOTE 2: Applies for |               |                     |      |
| NR Band n47.        |               |                     |      |
+---------------------+---------------+---------------------+------+

### 8.1.13 Spurious emission band UE co-existence for V2X UE

This clause specifies the spurious emission requirements for the
specified NR V2X band, for coexistence with protected bands

Table 8.1.13-1: Requirements

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+
| NR    | Spu   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| Band  | rious |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | emi   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | ssion |       |       |       |       |   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+
|       | Prot  | Freq  | Ma    | MBW   | NOTE  |   |       |
|       | ected | uency | ximum | (MHz) |       |   |       |
|       | band  | range | Level |       |       |   |       |
|       |       | (MHz) | (dBm) |       |       |   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+
| ...   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+
| n38   | E     | F~DL\ | \-    | F     | -50   | 1 |       |
|       | -UTRA | _low~ |       | ~DL\_ |       |   |       |
|       | Band  |       |       | high~ |       |   |       |
|       | 1, 2, |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 3, 4, |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 5, 8, |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 10,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 12,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 13,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 14,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 17,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 20,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 22,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 27,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 28,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 29,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 30,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 31,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 32,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 33,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 34,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 40,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 42,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 43,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 50,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 51,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 52,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 65,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 66,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 67,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 68,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 72,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 74,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 75,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 76,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 85    |       |       |       |       |   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+
|       | NR    | FDL   | \-    | FDL\  | -50   | 1 |       |
|       | Band  | \_low |       | _high |       |   |       |
|       | n77,  |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | n78   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+
|       | Freq  | 2620  | \-    | 2645  | -15.5 | 5 | 4,5,6 |
|       | uency |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | range |       |       |       |       |   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+
|       | Freq  | 2645  | \-    | 2690  | -40   | 1 | 4,5   |
|       | uency |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | range |       |       |       |       |   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+
| n47   | E     | FDL   | \-    | FDL\  | -50   | 1 |       |
|       | -UTRA | \_low |       | _high |       |   |       |
|       | Band  |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 1, 3, |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 5, 7, |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 8,    |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 22,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 26,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 28,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 34,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 39,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 40,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 41,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 42,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 44,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 45,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 65,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 68,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 72,   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | 73    |       |       |       |       |   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+
|       | NR    | FDL   | \-    | FDL\  | -50   | 1 |       |
|       | Band  | \_low |       | _high |       |   |       |
|       | n71,  |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | n77,  |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | n78,  |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       | n79   |       |       |       |       |   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+
|       | Freq  | 5925  | \-    | 5950  | -30   | 1 | 1,2,3 |
|       | uency |       |       |       | EIRP  |   |       |
|       | range |       |       |       |       |   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+
|       | Freq  | 5815  | \-    | 5855  | -30   | 1 | 1,3,7 |
|       | uency |       |       |       | EIRP  |   |       |
|       | range |       |       |       |       |   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| 1:    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| Appli |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| cable |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| when  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| N     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| S\_33 |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| or    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| N     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| S\_34 |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| confi |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| gured |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| by    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| pre-  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| confi |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| gured |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| radio |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| p     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| arame |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ters. |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| 2: In |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| freq  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| uency |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| range |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| x-595 |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| 0MHz, |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| SE    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| -30dB |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| m/MHz |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| s     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| hould |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| be    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| app   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| lied; |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| where |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| x =   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| max   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| (     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| 5925, |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| fc +  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| 15),  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| where |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| fc is |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ch    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| annel |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| entre |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| frequ |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ency. |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| EIRP  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| conv  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| erted |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| cond  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ucted |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| d     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| epend |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| on    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| supp  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| orted |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| post  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| an    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| tenna |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| conn  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ector |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| gain  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| G~p   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ost\  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| conne |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ctor~ |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| dec   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| lared |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| by    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| UE    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| foll  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| owing |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| prin  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ciple |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| desc  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ribed |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| annex |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| I.    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| 4:    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| These |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| quire |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ments |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| also  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| freq  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| uency |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| anges |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| that  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| less  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| than  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| F     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ~OOB~ |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| (MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| Table |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| 6.5.  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| 3.1-1 |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| TS3   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| 6.101 |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| from  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| edge  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ch    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| annel |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| 5:    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| This  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| appli |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| cable |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| power |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| class |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| 3 UE  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| any   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ch    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| annel |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| idths |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| w     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ithin |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| range |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| 2570  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| -     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| 2615  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| MHz   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| with  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| foll  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| owing |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| stric |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| tion: |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| car   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| riers |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| of 20 |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| MHz   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| width |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| when  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ca    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| rrier |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| entre |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| freq  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| uency |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| w     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ithin |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| range |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| 2597  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| -     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| 2605  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| MHz   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| appli |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| cable |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| only  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| an    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| u     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| plink |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| tr    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ansmi |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ssion |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| width |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| less  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| than  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| or    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| equal |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| to 54 |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| RB.   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| For   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| power |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| class |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| 3 UE  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| car   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| riers |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| with  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ch    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| annel |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| width |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| o     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| verla |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| pping |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| freq  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| uency |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| range |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| 2615  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| -     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| 2620  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| MHz   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ap    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| plies |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| with  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ma    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ximum |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| o     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| utput |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| power |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| confi |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| gured |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| +19   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| dBm   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| IE    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| P     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| -Max. |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| 6:    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| For   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| these |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| adj   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| acent |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| b     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ands, |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| emi   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ssion |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| limit |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| could |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| imply |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| risk  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ha    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| rmful |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| terfe |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| rence |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| UE(s) |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| prot  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ected |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| band. |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| 7:    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| Resol |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ution |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| BW is |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| 10%   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| m     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| easur |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| BW    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| esult |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| s     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| hould |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| be    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| integ |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| rated |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ac    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| hieve |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| m     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| easur |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| idth. |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| sweep |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| time  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| shall |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| be    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| set   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| l     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| arger |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| than  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| (s    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ymbol |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| l     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ength |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| )\*(n |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| p     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| oints |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| s     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| weep) |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| im    |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| prove |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| m     |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| easur |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| accu  |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
| racy. |       |       |       |       |       |   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+

In Note 2, the frequency range with -30dBm/MHz will be further
discussed.

When \"NS\_33\" is configured from pre-configured radio parameters or
the cell and the indication from upper layers has indicated that the UE
is within the protection zone of CEN DSRC devices or HDR DSRC devices,
the power of any V2X UE emission shall fulfil either one of the two set
of conditions.

                Maximum Transmission Power (dBm EIRP)   Emission Limit in Frequency Range 5795-5815 (dBm/MHz EIRP)
  ------------- --------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------
  Condition 1   10                                      -65
  Condition 2   10                                      -45

### 8.1.14 Transmit intermodulation for NR V2X UE

When UE is configured for NR V2X sidelink transmissions non-concurrent
with NR uplink transmissions for NR V2X operating bands in Table 8.1-1,
the requirements in sub-clause 6.5.4 in TS38.101-1 apply for NR V2X
sidelink transmission.

8.2 (Void)
----------

9 Receiver characteristics 
==========================

9.1 NR V2X UE Rx requirements in FR1
------------------------------------

When a NR V2X UE is TDM operating between NR SL and LTE SL at n47, the
NR V2X UE need to satisfy the individual V2X Rx requirements of each
RAT. For V2X applications the receiver characteristics are specified at
UE antenna connector without any external components that may be used to
relocate the antenna away from the UE as shown in Figure 8.1-1.

### 9.1.1 Reference sensitivity power level

The reference sensitivity power level REFSENS is the minimum mean power
applied to the UE antenna connector at which the throughput shall meet
or exceed 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference measurement
channels.

The V2X UE REFSENS is defined by the following equation:

REFSENS~V2X~=*kTB* + SNR~V2X~ +10log~10~(L~CRB~\*SCS\*12/RX\_BW) +(
NF~V2X~+ IM) -- Diversity gain

Where

*- kTB:* Thermal noise level is \[-174dBm(kT) + 10\*log~10~(RX BW)\]dBm.

*-* NF: Noise figure. 13 dB is used for LAA and can be reused for NR V2X
requirements. Assumed NF is 9dB \< 3GHz, NF is 10dB\>= 3GHz (e.g B42,
n77, n78, n79...) at licensed bands at FR1.

*-* IM: 2.5 dB is assumed. When the number of RB size equal to or less
than 24RBs, 0.5dB additional relaxation is allowed.

\- Target SNR: -0.5 dB

\- Diversity gain: 3dB

The REFSENS requirements for NR V2X Bands (PC5) are in Table 9.1.1-1.

Table 9.1.1-1: Reference sensitivity for V2X Band (PC5)

+---------------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------------+
| NR Operating  |     |       |       |       |       |             |
| band / SCS /  |     |       |       |       |       |             |
| Channel       |     |       |       |       |       |             |
| bandwidth /   |     |       |       |       |       |             |
| Duplex-mode   |     |       |       |       |       |             |
+===============+=====+=======+=======+=======+=======+=============+
| V2X Band      | SCS | 10MHz | 20MHz | 30MHz | 40MHz | Duplex Mode |
|               |     |       |       |       |       |             |
|               | kHz | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) |             |
+---------------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------------+
| n38           | 15  | -96.5 | -93.2 | -91.4 | -90.1 | HD          |
+---------------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------------+
|               | 30  | -96.1 | -93.4 | -91.7 | -90.2 |             |
+---------------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------------+
|               | 60  | -96.9 | -93.1 | -91.9 | -90.4 |             |
+---------------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------------+
| n47           | 15  | -92.5 | -89.2 | -87.4 | -86.1 | HD          |
+---------------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------------+
|               | 30  | -92.1 | -89.4 | -87.7 | -86.2 |             |
+---------------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------------+
|               | 60  | -92.9 | -89.1 | -87.9 | -86.4 |             |
+---------------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------------+

Table 9.1.1-2: Sidelink TX configuration for reference sensitivity of
V2X Bands (PC5)

  ------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------- --------- --------- --------- --------- -------------
  NR operating Band / SCS/ Channel bandwidth / N~RB~ / Duplex mode                                                       

  V2X Band                                                           SCS (kHz)   10 MHz\   20 MHz\   30 MHz\   40 MHz\   Duplex Mode
                                                                                 (dBm)     (dBm)     (dBm)     (dBm)     

  n38                                                                15          50        105       160       216       HD

                                                                     30          24        50        75        105       

                                                                     60          10        24        36        50        

  n47                                                                15          50        105       160       216       HD

                                                                     30          24        50        75        105       

                                                                     60          10        24        36        50        
  ------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------- --------- --------- --------- --------- -------------

### 9.1.2 Maximum input level

Maximum input level is defined as the maximum mean power received at the
UE antenna port, at which the specified relative throughput shall meet
or exceed the minimum requirements for the specified reference
measurement channel.

For V2X, the requirement are defined for 10MHz, 20MHz, 30MHz and 40MHz.
The parameters of reference measurement channel shall be changed
according to the physical layer design specific to NR V2X UE in Table
8.1-1.

Table 9.1.2-1: Maximum input level for V2X

+--------------+-------+--------------+--------+--------+--------+
| Rx Parameter | Units | Channel      |        |        |        |
|              |       | bandwidth    |        |        |        |
+==============+=======+==============+========+========+========+
|              |       | 10 MHz       | 20 MHz | 30 MHz | 40 MHz |
+--------------+-------+--------------+--------+--------+--------+
| Power in     | dBm   | -25^1^       | -25^1^ | -23^1^ | -22^1^ |
| Transmission |       |              |        |        |        |
| Bandwidth    |       |              |        |        |        |
| C            |       |              |        |        |        |
| onfiguration |       |              |        |        |        |
+--------------+-------+--------------+--------+--------+--------+
|              |       | -27^2^       | -27^2^ | -25^2^ | -24^2^ |
+--------------+-------+--------------+--------+--------+--------+
| NOTE 1:      |       |              |        |        |        |
| Reference    |       |              |        |        |        |
| measurement  |       |              |        |        |        |
| channel is   |       |              |        |        |        |
| A.7 for 64   |       |              |        |        |        |
| QAM in       |       |              |        |        |        |
| TS38.101-1   |       |              |        |        |        |
|              |       |              |        |        |        |
| NOTE 2:      |       |              |        |        |        |
| Reference    |       |              |        |        |        |
| measurement  |       |              |        |        |        |
| channel is   |       |              |        |        |        |
| A.7 for 256  |       |              |        |        |        |
| QAM in       |       |              |        |        |        |
| TS38.101-1   |       |              |        |        |        |
+--------------+-------+--------------+--------+--------+--------+

### 9.1.3 Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS)

Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS) is a measure of a receiver\'s ability
to receive an NR signal at its assigned channel frequency in the
presence of an adjacent channel signal at a given frequency offset from
the centre frequency of the assigned channel.

ACS reflects the digital domain filter attenuation capability, which is
model together with ACLR in ACIR. Based on PRR metric. In co-existence
study, the existing NR ACS requirement reuse for both NR UE to V2X UE
and DSRC UE to V2X UE urban interference scenarios, PRR loss is less
than 5%. Therefore, it is proposed that the same ACS values shall be
kept unchanged for V2X UE at n47.

In licensed band, RAN4 shall reuse the same ACS values since there was
legacy NR or LTE system.

As 10MHz is typical channel bandwidth used in the V2X band, the
interferer bandwidth shall be used with 10MHz for NR V2X operating bands
in Table 8.1-1.

Table 9.1.3-1: Adjacent channel selectivity for V2X

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         Channel bandwidth                                            
  -------------- ------- ------------------- ----- ----- ------ ----- ------ -------- --------
  Rx Parameter   Units   1.4\                3\    5\    10\    15\   20\    30 MHz   40 MHz
                         MHz                 MHz   MHz   MHz    MHz   MHz             

  ACS            dB                                      33.0         27.0   25.5     24.0
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 9.1.3-2: Test parameters for Adjacent channel selectivity for V2X,
Case 1

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Rx Parameter</th>
<th>Units</th>
<th>Channel bandwidth</th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>1.4 MHz</td>
<td>3 MHz</td>
<td>5 MHz</td>
<td>10 MHz</td>
<td>15 MHz</td>
<td>20 MHz</td>
<td>30 MHz</td>
<td>40 MHz</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Power in Transmission Bandwidth Configuration</td>
<td>dBm</td>
<td>P<sub>REFSENS_V2X</sub> + 14 dB</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>P<sub>Interferer</sub></strong></td>
<td>dBm</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>REFSENS +45.5dB</td>
<td></td>
<td>REFSENS +39.5dB</td>
<td>REFSENS +38.0 dB</td>
<td>REFSENS +36.5dB</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>BW<sub>Interferer </sub></strong></td>
<td>MHz</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>10</td>
<td></td>
<td>10</td>
<td>10</td>
<td>10</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>F<sub>Interferer</sub> (offset)</strong></td>
<td>MHz</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>10</p>
<p>/</p>
<p>-10</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>15</p>
<p>/</p>
<p>-15</p></td>
<td><p>20</p>
<p>/</p>
<p>-20</p></td>
<td><p>25</p>
<p>/</p>
<p>-25</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>NOTE 1: The interferer is QPSK modulated PUSCH containing data and reference symbols. Normal cyclic prefix is used.</p>
<p>NOTE 2: The absolute value of the interferer offset F<sub>interferer</sub> (offset) shall be further adjusted to MHz with SCS the sub-carrier spacing of the wanted signal in MHz. The interferer is an NR signal with 15 kHz SCS.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table 9.1.3-3: Test parameters for Adjacent channel selectivity for V2X,
Case 2

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Rx Parameter</th>
<th>Units</th>
<th>Channel bandwidth</th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>1.4 MHz</td>
<td>3 MHz</td>
<td>5 MHz</td>
<td>10 MHz</td>
<td>15 MHz</td>
<td>20 MHz</td>
<td>30 MHz</td>
<td>40 MHz</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Power in Transmission Bandwidth Configuration</td>
<td>dBm</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>-56.5</td>
<td></td>
<td>-50.5</td>
<td>-49.0</td>
<td>-47.5</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>P<sub>Interferer</sub></td>
<td>dBm</td>
<td>-25</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>BW<sub>Interferer</sub></td>
<td>MHz</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>10</td>
<td></td>
<td>10</td>
<td>10</td>
<td>10</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>F<sub>Interferer</sub> (offset)</td>
<td>MHz</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>10</p>
<p>/</p>
<p>-10</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>15</p>
<p>/</p>
<p>-15</p></td>
<td><p>20</p>
<p>/</p>
<p>-20</p></td>
<td><p>25</p>
<p>/</p>
<p>-25</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>NOTE 1: The interferer is QPSK modulated PUSCH containing data and reference symbols. Normal cyclic prefix is used.</p>
<p>NOTE 2: The absolute value of the interferer offset F<sub>interferer</sub> (offset) shall be further adjusted to MHz with SCS the sub-carrier spacing of the wanted signal in MHz. The interferer is an NR signal with 15 kHz SCS.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### 9.1.4 Blocking characteristics

#### 9.1.4.1 In-band blocking

In EN 302 571, the blocking level shall not be less than -30 dBm. And
the blocking is tested at ± 50 MHz, ± 100 MHz, and ± 200 MHz frequency
offset. Blocking testing shall be performed at least at 6 different
frequency offset positions. The blocking level is larger than exiting
case 2 blocking interferer in the specification, which is in the second
alternate channel offset from the wanted signal. Considering the total
70MHz band width of the V2X band, ± 50 MHz is already outside the
operating band or close at the band edge depends on the placement of the
carrier.

RAN4 reuse the In-band blocking requirements in LTE V2X UE as shown in
Table 9.1.4.1-1 and Table 9.1.4.1-2 NR V2X UE in Table 8.1-1.

Table 9.1.4.1-1: In band blocking parameters for V2X

  Rx parameter                                                                                                          Units   Channel bandwidth                                                                                              
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------- ---------------------------------------------------------- ------- ------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------
                                                                                                                                1.4 MHz                                                    3 MHz   5 MHz   10 MHz   15 MHz   20 MHz   30 MHz   40MHz
  Power in Transmission Bandwidth Configuration                                                                         dBm     P~REFSENS\_V2X~ + channel bandwidth specific value below                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                           6                 9        11       12
  **BW~Interferer\ ~**                                                                                                  MHz                                                                                10                10       10       10
  **F~Ioffset,\ case\ 1\ ~**                                                                                            MHz                                                                                15                15       15       15
  **F~Ioffset,\ case\ 2\ ~**                                                                                            MHz                                                                                25                25       25       25
  NOTE 1: The interferer is QPSK modulated PUSCH containing data and reference symbols. Normal cyclic prefix is used.                                                                                                                          

Table 9.1.4.1-2: In-band blocking for V2X

+--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+
| NR           | Parameter    | Unit | Case 1       | Case 2       |
|              |              |      |              |              |
| band         |              |      |              |              |
+==============+==============+======+==============+==============+
| n47, n38     | P            | dBm  | -44          | -44          |
|              | ~Interferer~ |      |              |              |
+--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+
|              | F            | MHz  | =-BW/2 --    | ≤-BW/2 --    |
|              | ~Interferer~ |      | F~Ioff       | F~Ioff       |
|              | (offset)     |      | set,case\ 1~ | set,case\ 2~ |
|              |              |      |              |              |
|              |              |      | &            | &            |
|              |              |      |              |              |
|              |              |      | =+BW/2 +     | ≥+BW/2 +     |
|              |              |      | F~Ioff       | F~Ioff       |
|              |              |      | set,case\ 1~ | set,case\ 2~ |
+--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+
|              | F            | MHz  | (NOTE 2)     | F~DL\_low~   |
|              | ~Interferer~ |      |              | -- 30        |
|              |              |      |              |              |
|              |              |      |              | to           |
|              |              |      |              |              |
|              |              |      |              | F~DL\_high~  |
|              |              |      |              | + 30         |
+--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+
| NOTE 1: For  |              |      |              |              |
| certain      |              |      |              |              |
| bands, the   |              |      |              |              |
| unwanted     |              |      |              |              |
| modulated    |              |      |              |              |
| interfering  |              |      |              |              |
| signal may   |              |      |              |              |
| not fall     |              |      |              |              |
| inside the   |              |      |              |              |
| UE receive   |              |      |              |              |
| band, but    |              |      |              |              |
| within the   |              |      |              |              |
| first 15 MHz |              |      |              |              |
| below or     |              |      |              |              |
| above the UE |              |      |              |              |
| receive      |              |      |              |              |
| band.        |              |      |              |              |
|              |              |      |              |              |
| NOTE 2: For  |              |      |              |              |
| each carrier |              |      |              |              |
| frequency    |              |      |              |              |
| the          |              |      |              |              |
| requirement  |              |      |              |              |
| is valid for |              |      |              |              |
| two          |              |      |              |              |
| frequencies: |              |      |              |              |
|              |              |      |              |              |
| > a\. the    |              |      |              |              |
| > carrier    |              |      |              |              |
| > frequency  |              |      |              |              |
| > -BW/2 -    |              |      |              |              |
| > F~Ioffse   |              |      |              |              |
| t,\ case\ 1~ |              |      |              |              |
| > and        |              |      |              |              |
| >            |              |      |              |              |
| > b\. the    |              |      |              |              |
| > carrier    |              |      |              |              |
| > frequency  |              |      |              |              |
| > +BW/2 +    |              |      |              |              |
| > F~Ioffse   |              |      |              |              |
| t,\ case\ 1~ |              |      |              |              |
|              |              |      |              |              |
| NOTE 3:      |              |      |              |              |
| F            |              |      |              |              |
| ~Interferer~ |              |      |              |              |
| range values |              |      |              |              |
| for unwanted |              |      |              |              |
| modulated    |              |      |              |              |
| interfering  |              |      |              |              |
| signal are   |              |      |              |              |
| interferer   |              |      |              |              |
| center       |              |      |              |              |
| frequencies  |              |      |              |              |
|              |              |      |              |              |
| NOTE 4: The  |              |      |              |              |
| absolute     |              |      |              |              |
| value of the |              |      |              |              |
| interferer   |              |      |              |              |
| offset       |              |      |              |              |
| F            |              |      |              |              |
| ~interferer~ |              |      |              |              |
| (offset)     |              |      |              |              |
| shall be     |              |      |              |              |
| further      |              |      |              |              |
| adjusted to  |              |      |              |              |
| MHz with SCS |              |      |              |              |
| the          |              |      |              |              |
| sub-carrier  |              |      |              |              |
| spacing of   |              |      |              |              |
| the wanted   |              |      |              |              |
| signal in    |              |      |              |              |
| MHz. The     |              |      |              |              |
| interferer   |              |      |              |              |
| is an NR     |              |      |              |              |
| signal with  |              |      |              |              |
| 15 kHz SCS.  |              |      |              |              |
+--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+

#### 9.1.4.2 Out-of-band blocking

Out-of-band band blocking in existing specification for licensed bands
is defined for an unwanted CW interfering signal falling more than 30
MHz below or above the UE receive band. For the first 15 MHz below or
above the UE receive band the appropriate in-band blocking or adjacent
channel selectivity shall be applied.

RAN4 reuse the Out-of- band blocking of LTE V2X UE as shown in Table
9.1.4.2-1 and Table 9.1.4.2-2 for NR V2X UE in Table 8.1-1.

Table 9.1.4.2-1: Out-of-band blocking parameters

  Rx Parameter                                    Units   Channel bandwidth                                                                                              
  ----------------------------------------------- ------- ---------------------------------------------------------- ------- ------- -------- -------- -------- -------- --------
                                                          1.4 MHz                                                    3 MHz   5 MHz   10 MHz   15 MHz   20 MHz   30 MHz   40 MHz
  Power in Transmission Bandwidth Configuration   dBm     P~REFSENS\_V2X~ + channel bandwidth specific value below                                                       
                                                                                                                                     6                 9        11       12
  NOTE 1: Reference measurement channel is FFS                                                                                                                           

Table 9.1.4.2-2: Out of band blocking

+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| NR       | P        | Units | F        | Range 2  | Range 3  |
|          | arameter |       | requency |          |          |
| band     |          |       |          |          |          |
|          |          |       | Range 1  |          |          |
+==========+==========+=======+==========+==========+==========+
| n47      |          |       |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | P~Int    | dBm   | -44      | -30      | -15      |
|          | erferer~ |       |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | F~Int    | MHz   | F~       | F~       | F~       |
|          | erferer~ |       | DL\_low~ | DL\_low~ | DL\_low~ |
|          | (CW)     |       | -30 to   | -60 to   | -85 to   |
|          |          |       |          |          |          |
|          |          |       | F~       | F~       | 1 MHz    |
|          |          |       | DL\_low~ | DL\_low~ |          |
|          |          |       | -60      | -85      |          |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
|          |          |       | F~D      | F~D      | F~D      |
|          |          |       | L\_high~ | L\_high~ | L\_high~ |
|          |          |       | +30 to   | +60 to   | +85 to   |
|          |          |       |          |          |          |
|          |          |       | F~D      | F~D      | +12750   |
|          |          |       | L\_high~ | L\_high~ | MHz      |
|          |          |       | + 60     | +85      |          |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| n38      | P~int    | dBm   | -44      | -30      | -15      |
|          | erferer~ |       |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | F~int    | MHz   | F~       | F~       | F~       |
|          | erferer~ |       | DL\_low~ | DL\_low~ | DL\_low~ |
|          | (CW)     |       | -30 to   | -60 to   | -85 to   |
|          |          |       |          |          |          |
|          |          |       | F~       | F~       | 1 MHz    |
|          |          |       | DL\_low~ | DL\_low~ |          |
|          |          |       | -60      | -85      |          |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE:    |          |       |          |          |          |
| The      |          |       |          |          |          |
| power    |          |       |          |          |          |
| level of |          |       |          |          |          |
| the      |          |       |          |          |          |
| in       |          |       |          |          |          |
| terferer |          |       |          |          |          |
| (PInt    |          |       |          |          |          |
| erferer) |          |       |          |          |          |
| for      |          |       |          |          |          |
| Range 3  |          |       |          |          |          |
| shall be |          |       |          |          |          |
| modified |          |       |          |          |          |
| to -20   |          |       |          |          |          |
| dBm for  |          |       |          |          |          |
| FIn      |          |       |          |          |          |
| terferer |          |       |          |          |          |
| \> 4400  |          |       |          |          |          |
| MHz.     |          |       |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+

### 9.1.5 Spurious response

Spurious response is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to receive a
wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency without exceeding a
given degradation due to the presence of an unwanted CW interfering
signal at any other frequency at which a response is obtained.

For V2X, 10MHz, 20MHz, 30MHz and 40MHz channel bandwidths are
considered. RAN4 reuse the spurious response of LTE V2X UE as shown in
Table 9.1.5-1 and Table 9.1.5-2 for NR V2X UE in Table 8.1-1.

Table 9.1.5-1: Spurious response parameters for V2X

  Rx parameter                                    Units   Channel bandwidth                                                                                              
  ----------------------------------------------- ------- ---------------------------------------------------------- ------- ------- -------- -------- -------- -------- --------
                                                          1.4 MHz                                                    3 MHz   5 MHz   10 MHz   15 MHz   20 MHz   30 MHz   40 MHz
  Power in Transmission Bandwidth Configuration   dBm     P~REFSENS\_V2X~ + channel bandwidth specific value below                                                       
                                                                                                                                     6                 9        11       12
  NOTE 1: Reference measurement channel is FFS                                                                                                                           

Table 9.1.5-2: Spurious response for V2X

+---------------+------+-------------------------------+
| Parameter     | Unit | Level                         |
+---------------+------+-------------------------------+
| P~Interferer~ | dBm  | -44                           |
|               |      |                               |
| (CW)          |      |                               |
+---------------+------+-------------------------------+
| F~Interferer~ | MHz  | Spurious response frequencies |
+---------------+------+-------------------------------+

### 9.1.6 Intermodulation characteristics

Intermodulation response rejection is a measure of the capability of the
receiver to receive a wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency in
the presence of two or more interfering signals which have a specific
frequency relationship to the wanted signal.

The wide band intermodulation requirement is defined using modulated NR
carrier and CW signal as interferer. 10MHz channel bandwidth will be
chosen as the modulated interfering signal for 10MHz, 20MHz, 30MHz and
40MHz channel bandwidth.

RAN4 reuse the intermodulation characteristics of LTE V2X UE as shown in
Table 9.1.6-1 for NR V2X UE in Table 8.1-1.

Table 9.1.6-1: Wide band intermodulation

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>NR band</th>
<th>Rx Parameter</th>
<th>Units</th>
<th>Channel bandwidth</th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>1.4 MHz</td>
<td>3 MHz</td>
<td>5 MHz</td>
<td>10 MHz</td>
<td>15 MHz</td>
<td>20 MHz</td>
<td>30 MHz</td>
<td>40 MHz</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>n47</td>
<td>Power in Transmission Bandwidth Configuration</td>
<td>dBm</td>
<td>P<sub>REFSENS_V2X</sub> + channel bandwidth specific value below</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>6</td>
<td></td>
<td>9</td>
<td>11</td>
<td>12</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td><p><strong>P<sub>Interferer 1</sub></strong></p>
<p><strong>(CW)</strong></p></td>
<td>dBm</td>
<td>-46</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td><p><strong>P<sub>Interferer 2</sub></strong></p>
<p><strong>(Modulated)</strong></p></td>
<td>dBm</td>
<td>-46</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td><strong>BW<sub>Interferer 2</sub></strong></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>10</td>
<td></td>
<td>10</td>
<td>10</td>
<td>10</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td><p><strong>F<sub>Interferer 1</sub></strong></p>
<p><strong>(Offset)</strong></p></td>
<td>MHz</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>-BW/2 – 15</p>
<p>/</p>
<p>+BW/2 + 15</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>-BW/2 – 15</p>
<p>/</p>
<p>+BW/2 + 15</p></td>
<td><p>-BW/2 – 15</p>
<p>/</p>
<p>+BW/2 + 15</p></td>
<td><p>-BW/2 – 15</p>
<p>/</p>
<p>+BW/2 + 15</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td><p><strong>F<sub>Interferer 2</sub></strong></p>
<p><strong>(Offset)</strong></p></td>
<td>MHz</td>
<td>2*F<sub>Interferer 1</sub></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>NOTE 1: Reference measurement channel is FFS</p>
<p>NOTE 2: The interferer is QPSK modulated PUSCH containing data and reference symbols. Normal cyclic prefix is used.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

9.2 (Void)
----------

10 Tx/Rx characteristics of concurrent operation
================================================

10.1 NR V2X SL operation in 5.9GHz or other potential ITS spectrum and LTE/NR Uu operation in licensed band for FR1
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 10.1.1 Tx requirements for inter-band con-current NR V2X operation

#### 10.1.1.1 Maximum output power

For the inter-band con-current NR V2X operation, the following NR V2X UE
Power Classes define the maximum output power for any transmission
bandwidth within the channel bandwidth. The period of measurement shall
be at least one sub frame (1ms).

Table 10.1.1.1-1: Con-current NR V2X UE Power Class for uplink
inter-band combination (two bands)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NR    | Class | Tole  | Class | Tole  | Class | Tole  | Class | Tole  |
| V2X   | 1     | rance | 2     | rance | 3     | rance | 4     | rance |
| c     | (dBm) | (dB)  | (dBm) | (dB)  | (dBm) | (dB)  | (dBm) | (dB)  |
| on-cu |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rrent |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| figur |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| V2X\  |       |       |       |       | 23    | +2/   |       |       |
| _n71A |       |       |       |       |       | -3^4^ |       |       |
| -n47A |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| on-cu |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rrent |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| co    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mbina |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| used  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NR    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| V2X   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Ser   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| vice. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| P~P   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| owerC |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lass~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ma    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ximum |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| power |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| spec  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ified |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| wi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| thout |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| aking |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| into  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ac    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| count |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tole  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rance |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| For   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| inter |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| -band |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| on-cu |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rrent |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ggreg |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ma    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ximum |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| power |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| total |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ransm |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| itted |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| power |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| over  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| all   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| comp  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| onent |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| car   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| riers |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| (per  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| UE).  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ^4^   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| efers |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tr    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ansmi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ssion |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| idths |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| (F    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| igure |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 5     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .6-1) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| w     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ithin |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| F~UL\ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| _low~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| F~UL\ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| _low~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| + 4   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| MHz   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| or    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| F     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ~UL\_ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| high~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| -- 4  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| MHz   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| F~    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| UL\_h |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| igh~, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ma    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ximum |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| o     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| utput |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| power |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| laxed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| by    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| red   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ucing |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lower |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tole  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rance |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| limit |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| by    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1.5   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dB    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

#### 10.1.1.2 UE maximum output power reduction

For the inter-band con-current NR V2X operation, the allowed maximum
power reduction (MPR) for the maximum output power shall be applied per
each component carrier. The legacy MPR requirements for NR Uu operation
shall be applied on the CC of licensed band, the MPR requirements for NR
sidelink operation shall be applied on CC of NR Band n47.

#### 10.1.1.3 UE maximum output power with additional requirements

For the inter-band con-current NR V2X operation, the allowed additional
maximum power reduction (A-MPR) for the maximum output power shall be
applied per each component carrier. The legacy A-MPR requirements for NR
Uu operation shall be applied on CC of licensed band, the A-MPR
requirements for NR sidelink operation shall be applied on CC of NR Band
n47.

#### 10.1.1.4 Configured transmitted power 

For the inter-band con-current NR V2X operation, the configured
transmitted power requirements for NR V2X UE shall be applied per each
component carrier. The legacy NR configured transmitted power for
inter-band NR CA shall be decided by MPR*~c~* and A-MPR*~c~* of each
CC*.*

If the total transmitted power is over the power class of the NR V2X UE
or given P~EMAX~,*c* for NR V2X service, the UE shall compare the
priority between the legacy NR service on licensed band and NR V2X
service at n47. Based on the priority, the configured transmitted power
will be decided which transmission will be applied on power scale down
or dropping between the legacy NR Uu transmission and NR V2X SL
transmission.

When a UE is configured for simultaneous NR V2X sidelink and NR uplink
transmissions for inter-band con-current operation, the UE is allowed to
set its configured maximum output power P~CMAX,*c*,*NR*~ and
P~CMAX,*c*,*V2X*~ for the configured NR uplink carrier and the
configured NR V2X carrier, respectively, and its total configured
maximum output power P~CMAX,c~.

The configured maximum output power P~CMAX\ *c*,*NR*~*(p)* in slot *p*
for the configured NR uplink carrier shall be set within the bounds:

P~CMAX\_L,*c,NR*~ (*p*) ≤ P~CMAX,*c,NR\ *~(*p*) ≤ P~CMAX\_H,*c,NR*~
(*p*)

where P~CMAX\_L,*c,NR\ *~and P~CMAX\_H,*c,NR*~ are the limits for a
serving cell c as specified in subclause 6.2.4.

The configured maximum output power P~CMAX\ *c*,*V2X\ *~*(q)* in slot
*q* for the configured NR V2X carrier shall be set within the bounds:

P~CMAX,*c,V2X\ *~(*q*) ≤ P~CMAX\_H,*c,V2X*~ (*q*)

where P~CMAX\_H,*c,V2X*~ is the limit as specified in subclause 6.2E.4.

The total UE configured maximum output power P~CMAX~ (*p,q*) in a slot
*p* of NR uplink carrier and a slot *q* of NR V2X sidelink that overlap
in time shall be set within the following bounds for synchronous and
asynchronous operation unless stated otherwise:

P~CMAX\_L~ (*p,q*) ≤ P~CMAX~ (*p,q*) ≤ P~CMAX\_H~ (*p,q*)

with

P~CMAX\_L~ (*p,q*) = P~CMAX\_L,*c,NR*~ (*p*)

P~CMAX\_H~ (*p,q*) = 10 log~10~ \[p~CMAX\_H,*c,NR*~ (*p*) +
p~CMAX\_H,*c,V2X*~ (*q*)\]

where p~CMAX\_H*,c,V2X*~ and p~CMAX\_H,*c,NR*~ are the limits
P~CMAX\_H,*c,V2X*~ (*q*) and P~CMAX\_H,*c,NR*~ (*p*) expressed in linear
scale.

The measured total maximum output power P~UMAX~ over both the NR uplink
and NR V2X carriers is

P~UMAX~ = 10 log~10~ \[p~UMAX,*c,NR*~ + p~UMAX,*c,V2X*~\],

where p~UMAX,*c,NR\ *~ denotes the measured output power of serving cell
*c* for the configured NR uplink carrier, and p~UMAX,*c,V2X\ *~denotes
the measured output power for the configured NR V2X carrier expressed in
linear scale.

When a UE is configured for synchronous V2X sidelink and uplink
transmissions,

P~CMAX\_L~(*p, q*) -- T~LOW~ (P~CMAX\_L~(*p, q*)) ≤ P~UMAX~ ≤
P~CMAX\_H~(*p, q*) + T~HIGH~ (P~CMAX\_H~(*p, q*))

where P~CMAX\_L~ (*p,q*) and P~CMAX\_H~ (*p,q*) are the limits for the
pair (*p,q*) and with the tolerances T~LOW~(P~CMAX~) and
T~HIGH~(P~CMAX~) for applicable values of P~CMAX~ specified in Table
6.2E.4-1. P~CMAX\_L~ may be modified for any overlapping portion of
slots *(p, q)* and *(p +1, q+1).*

#### 10.1.1.5 UE Minimum output power 

Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current
NR V2X UE. The legacy minimum output power requirements will be applied
on CC of NR licensed band and the NR V2X minimum output power
requirements will be applied on CC of NR Band n47.

#### 10.1.1.6 Transmit OFF power 

Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current
NR V2X UE. The legacy transmit OFF power requirements will be applied on
CC of NR licensed band and the NR V2X transmit off power requirements
will be applied on CC of NR Band n47.

#### 10.1.1.7 ON/OFF time mask 

When UE support inter-band con-current NR V2X operation in Table 10.1-1,
the existing general time mask for NR UE will be applied on CC of NR
licensed band. Also the existing general time mask for NR UE and
additional requirements on ON/OFF time mask will be applied on CC of NR
Band n47.

#### 10.1.1.8 Power control

Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current
NR V2X UE. The legacy power control requirements will be applied on CC
of NR licensed band and the NR V2X power control requirements will be
applied on CC of NR Band n47.

#### 10.1.1.9 Transmit signal quality

##### 10.1.1.9.1 Frequency error

> Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current
> NR V2X UE. The legacy frequency error requirements will be applied on
> CC of NR licensed band and NR V2X frequency error requirements will be
> applied on CC of NR Band n47.

##### 10.1.1.9.2 Transmit modulation quality

##### 10.1.1.9.2.1 Error Vector Magnitude {#error-vector-magnitude-1 .H6}

> Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current
> NR V2X UE. The legacy EVM requirements will be applied on CC of NR
> licensed band and the NR V2X EVM requirements will be applied on CC of
> NR Band n47.

##### 10.1.1.9.2.2 Carrier leakage {#carrier-leakage-1 .H6}

> Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current
> NR V2X UE. The legacy carrier leakage requirements will be applied on
> CC of NR licensed band and the NR V2X carrier leakage requirements
> will be applied on CC of NR Band n47.

##### 10.1.1.9.2.3 In-band emissions {#in-band-emissions-1 .H6}

> Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current
> NR V2X UE. The legacy in-band emission requirements will be applied on
> CC of NR licensed band and the NR V2X in-band emission requirements
> will be applied on CC of NR Band n47.

##### 10.1.1.9.2.4 EVM equalizer spectrum flatness {#evm-equalizer-spectrum-flatness-1 .H6}

> Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current
> NR V2X UE. The legacy spectrum flatness requirements will be applied
> per carrier for inter-band con-current V2X operation.

#### 10.1.1.10 Spectrum emission mask

Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current
NR V2X UE. The legacy general/additional SEM requirements will be
applied on CC of NR licensed band and NR V2X general/additional SEM
requirements will be applied on CC of NR Band n47.

#### 10.1.1.11 ACLR requirements

Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current
NR V2X UE. The legacy ACLR requirements will be applied on CC of NR
licensed band and NR V2X ACLR requirements will be applied on CC of NR
Band n47.

#### 10.1.1.12 Spurious emission requirements

Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current
NR V2X UE. The legacy general spurious emission requirements will be
applied on CC of NR licensed band and NR V2X general spurious emission
requirements will be applied on CC of NR Band n47.

#### 10.1.1.13 Spurious emission band UE co-existence

This clause specifies the spurious emission requirements of the
inter-band con-current V2X operation, for UE-to-UE coexistence to
protect legacy protected bands

Table 10.1.1.13-1: Requirements

+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+------+
| NR V2X | Sp     |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| con-c  | urious |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| urrent | em     |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| ope    | ission |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| rating |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| band   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| cofigu |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| ration |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+------+
|        | Pro    | Fre    | M      | MBW    | NOTE |   |      |
|        | tected | quency | aximum | (MHz)  |      |   |      |
|        | band   | range  | Level  |        |      |   |      |
|        |        | (MHz)  | (dBm)  |        |      |   |      |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+------+
| V2     | E-UTRA | F~DL   | \-     | F~DL\  | -50  | 1 |      |
| X\_n71 | Band   | \_low~ |        | _high~ |      |   |      |
| A-n47A | 4, 5,  |        |        |        |      |   |      |
|        | 12,    |        |        |        |      |   |      |
|        | 13,    |        |        |        |      |   |      |
|        | 14,    |        |        |        |      |   |      |
|        | 17,    |        |        |        |      |   |      |
|        | 24,    |        |        |        |      |   |      |
|        | 26,    |        |        |        |      |   |      |
|        | 30,    |        |        |        |      |   |      |
|        | 48,    |        |        |        |      |   |      |
|        | 66, 85 |        |        |        |      |   |      |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+------+
|        | E-UTRA | F~DL   | \-     | F~DL\  | -38  | 1 | 2    |
|        | Band   | \_low~ |        | _high~ |      |   |      |
|        | 29     |        |        |        |      |   |      |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+------+
|        | E-UTRA | F~DL   | \-     | F~DL\  | -50  | 1 | 1    |
|        | Band   | \_low~ |        | _high~ |      |   |      |
|        | 2, 5,  |        |        |        |      |   |      |
|        | 41, 70 |        |        |        |      |   |      |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+------+
|        | NR     | F~DL   | \-     | F~DL\  | -50  | 1 |      |
|        | Band   | \_low~ |        | _high~ |      |   |      |
|        | n71    |        |        |        |      |   |      |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+------+
|        | Fre    | 5925   | \-     | 5950   | -30  | 1 | 3, 4 |
|        | quency |        |        |        |      |   |      |
|        | range  |        |        |        |      |   |      |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+------+
|        | Fre    | 5815   | \-     | 5855   | -30  | 1 | 3    |
|        | quency |        |        |        |      |   |      |
|        | range  |        |        |        |      |   |      |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+------+
| NOTE   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| 1: As  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| excep  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| tions, |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| measur |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| ements |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| with a |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| level  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| up to  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| the    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| appl   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| icable |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| requir |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| ements |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| d      |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| efined |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| in     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| Table  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| 6.6    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| .3.1-2 |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| are    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| per    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| mitted |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| for    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| each   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| as     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| signed |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| E-UTRA |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| c      |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| arrier |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| used   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| in the |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| measu  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| rement |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| due to |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| 2^nd^, |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| 3^rd^, |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| 4^th^  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| \[or   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| 5      |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| ^th^\] |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| ha     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| rmonic |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| sp     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| urious |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| emis   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| sions. |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| In     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| case   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| the    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| exce   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| ptions |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| are    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| a      |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| llowed |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| due to |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| spr    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| eading |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| of the |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| ha     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| rmonic |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| em     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| ission |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| the    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| exc    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| eption |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| is     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| also   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| a      |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| llowed |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| for    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| the    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| first  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| 1 MHz  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| fre    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| quency |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| range  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| immed  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| iately |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| o      |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| utside |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| the    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| ha     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| rmonic |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| em     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| ission |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| on     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| both   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| sides  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| of the |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| ha     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| rmonic |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| emi    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| ssion. |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| This   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| r      |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| esults |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| in an  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| o      |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| verall |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| exc    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| eption |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| in     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| terval |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| c      |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| entred |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| at the |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| ha     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| rmonic |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| em     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| ission |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| of     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| (2MHz  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| + N x  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| L~CRB~ |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| x      |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| 18     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| 0kHz), |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| where  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| N is   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| 2, 3   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| or 4   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| for    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| the    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| 2^nd^, |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| 3^rd^  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| or     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| 4^th^  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| ha     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| rmonic |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| r      |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| espect |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| ively. |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| The    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| exc    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| eption |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| is     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| a      |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| llowed |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| if the |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| measu  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| rement |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| ban    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| dwidth |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| (MBW)  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| t      |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| otally |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| or     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| par    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| tially |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| ov     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| erlaps |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| the    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| o      |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| verall |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| exc    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| eption |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| int    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| erval. |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
|        |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| NOTE   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| 2:     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| These  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| requir |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| ements |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| also   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| apply  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| for    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| the    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| fre    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| quency |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| ranges |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| that   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| are    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| less   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| than   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| F~OOB~ |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| (MHz)  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| in     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| Table  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| 6.6    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| .3.1-1 |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| and    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| Table  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| 6.6.   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| 3.1A-1 |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| from   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| the    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| edge   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| of the |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| aggr   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| egated |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| c      |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| hannel |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| band   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| width. |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
|        |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| NOTE   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| 3:     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| Appl   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| icable |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| when   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| NS\_33 |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| is     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| conf   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| igured |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| by the |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| pr     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| e-conf |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| igured |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| radio  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| para   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| meters |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| for    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| power  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| class  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| 3 V2X  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| UE.    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
|        |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| NOTE   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| 4: In  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| the    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| fre    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| quency |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| range  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| x-59   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| 50MHz, |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| SE     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| requi  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| rement |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| of     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| -30d   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| Bm/MHz |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| should |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| be     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| ap     |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| plied; |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| where  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| x =    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| max    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| (5925, |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| fc +   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| 15),   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| where  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| fc is  |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| the    |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| c      |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| hannel |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| centre |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| freq   |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
| uency. |        |        |        |        |      |   |      |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+------+

#### 10.1.1.14 Transmit intermodulation

Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current
NR V2X UE. The legacy transmit intermodulation requirements will be
applied on CC of NR licensed band and NR V2X transmit intermodulation
requirements will be applied on CC of NR Band n47.

### 10.1.2 Rx requirements for inter-band con-current NR V2X operation

#### 10.1.2.1 REFSENS

For the NR V2X UE RF receiver requirements, RAN4 can refer the 2DL
inter-band CA to define general UE RF Rx requirements for inter-band
con-current NR V2X UE.

The legacy REFSENS requirement will be applied on CC of NR licensed band
and NR V2X REFSENS requirements will be applied on CC of NR Band n47 if
there was no self-interference problems in own receiver frequency band
by own uplink and sidelink transmission.

Table 10.1.2.1-1 and Table 10.1.2.1-2 propose the uplink test
configurations for inter-band con-current NR V2X REFSENS requirements.
For the uplink configuration, RAN4 consider 10MHz Channel bandwidth.

Table 10.1.2.1-1: Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity of V2X
UE (PC5)

  **Inter-band NR V2X con-current band configuration**   **NR UL band / SCS/ Channel BW / N~RB~ / Duplex mode**                                                                                       
  ------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------- --------------- ----------------------------- ----------- -----------------
  **NR V2X band (PC5)**                                  **NR V2X band (Uu)**                                     **NR V2X UL band (Uu)**   **SCS (kHz)**   **Channel Bandwidth (MHz)**   **N~RB~**   **Duplex Mode**
  n47                                                    n71                                                      n71                       15              10                            52          FDD
                                                                                                                                            30              10                            24          
                                                                                                                                            60              10                            11          

Table 10.1.2.1-2: SL Tx configuration for reference sensitivity of V2X
UE (Uu)

  **Inter-band NR V2X con-current band configuration**   **NR UL band / SCS/ Channel BW / N~RB~ / Duplex mode**                                                                                     
  ------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- --------------- ----------------------------- ----------- -----------------
  **NR V2X band (PC5)**                                  **NR V2X band (Uu)**                                     **NR V2X band (PC5)**   **SCS (kHz)**   **Channel Bandwidth (MHz)**   **N~RB~**   **Duplex Mode**
  n47                                                    n71                                                      n47                     15              10                            50          HD
                                                                                                                                          30              10                            24          
                                                                                                                                          60              10                            10          

Table 10.1.2.1-3 is proposed UE REFSENS requirements with inter-band
con-current NR V2X UE reception.

Table 10.1.2.1-3: Reference sensitivity for V2X QPSK P~REFSENS~

  -------------------------- --------- ------------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- --------- -- -------------- -------------- -------------
  Inter-band V2X reception             Channel bandwidth                                                                                       

  NR V2X Band                NR band   NR Band             SCS (kHz)   5 MHz\   10 MHz\   15 MHz\   20 MHz\      30 MHz (dBm)   40 MHz (dBm)   Duplex Mode
                                                                       (dBm)    (dBm)     (dBm)     (dBm)                                      

  n47                        n71       n71                 15          -97.2    -94.0     -91.6     -86.0                                      FDD

                                                           30                   -94.3     -91.9     -87.4                                      

                                                           60                                                                                  

                                       n47                 15                   -92.5               -89.2        -87.4          -86.1          HD

                                                           30                   -92.1               -89.4        -87.7          -86.2          

                                                           60                   -92.9               -89.1        -87.9          -86.4          
  -------------------------- --------- ------------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- --------- -- -------------- -------------- -------------

Table 10.1.2.1-4 is proposed additional Rx insertion loss according to
harmonic trap filter to reduce the harmonic problem based on specific
self desense analysis according to specific NR V2X inter-band
con-current operation.

> Table 10.1.2.1-4: ΔR~IB,c~ (two bands)

  --------------------------------------------- ------------- -----------------
  V2X inter-band con-current band Combination   NR V2X Band   ΔR~IB,c~ \[dB\]
  V2X\_n71-n47                                  n71           0.0
  --------------------------------------------- ------------- -----------------

#### 10.1.2.2 Maximum input level

No need to define additional requirements for con-current inter-band V2X
operation since NR UE shall meet the requirements per each carrier while
all downlink carriers are active.

#### 10.1.2.3 The other Rx requirements

The other Rx requirements for inter-band con-current NR V2X UE can be
reused. The legacy other RX requirement will be applied on CC of NR
licensed band and legacy NR V2X other RX requirements will be applied on
CC of NR Band n47 since there was no difference on UE receiver aspect.

\- ACS: Keep the same requirements per CC

\- In band Blocking: Keep the same requirements per CC. For the
inter-band con-current NR V2X UE, P~Interferer~ power is increased by
ΔR~IB,c~ in the requirement.

\- Out-of-Band Blocking: Keep the same requirements per CC. For the
inter-band con-current NR V2X UE, P~Interferer~ power is increased by
ΔR~IB,c~ in the requirement.

\- Narrow Band Blocking: NR **NBB requirements only** applied on CC of
**NR licensed band and no requirements for NR Band n47.**

\- Spurious response: Keep the same requirements per CC. For the
inter-band con-current NR V2X UE, P~Interferer~ power is increased by
ΔR~IB,c~ in the requirement.

\- Wideband inter-modulation: Keep the same requirements per CC. For the
inter-band con-current NR V2X UE, P~Interferer~ power is increased by
ΔR~IB,c~ in the requirement.

10.2 NR V2X SL operation and LTE/NR Uu operation both in licensed band for FR1
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 10.2.1 Tx requirements for inter-band con-current V2X operation

#### 10.2.1.1 Maximum output power

For the inter-band con-current V2X operation at licensed bands in FR1,
the following V2X UE Power Classes define the maximum output power for
any transmission bandwidth within the channel bandwidth. The period of
measurement shall be at least one sub frame (1ms).

Table 10.2.1.1-1: Con-current V2X UE Power Class for uplink inter-band
combination (two bands)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| V2X   | Class | Tole  | Class | Tole  | Class | Tole  | Class | Tole  |
| c     | 1     | rance | 2     | rance | 3     | rance | 4     | rance |
| on-cu | (dBm) | (dB)  | (dBm) | (dB)  | (dBm) | (dB)  | (dBm) | (dB)  |
| rrent |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| oper  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ating |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| figur |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+
| V2X\  |       |       |       |       | 23    | +2/   |       |       |
| _20A\ |       |       |       |       |       | -3^4^ |       |       |
| _n38A |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| The   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| on-cu |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rrent |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| band  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| co    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mbina |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| used  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NR    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| V2X   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Ser   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| vice. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| P~P   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| owerC |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lass~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ma    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ximum |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| UE    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| power |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| spec  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ified |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| wi    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| thout |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| aking |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| into  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ac    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| count |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tole  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rance |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| For   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| inter |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| -band |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| on-cu |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rrent |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| a     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ggreg |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ma    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ximum |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| power |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| apply |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| total |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ransm |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| itted |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| power |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| over  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| all   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| comp  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| onent |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| car   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| riers |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| (per  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| UE).  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NOTE  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ^4^   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| efers |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tr    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ansmi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ssion |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| bandw |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| idths |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| (F    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| igure |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 5     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .6-1) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fined |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| w     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ithin |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| F~UL\ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| _low~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| F~UL\ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| _low~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| + 4   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| MHz   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| or    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| F     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ~UL\_ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| high~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| -- 4  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| MHz   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| F~    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| UL\_h |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| igh~, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ma    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ximum |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| o     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| utput |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| power |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| laxed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| by    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| red   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ucing |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lower |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tole  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rance |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| limit |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| by    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1.5   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dB    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

#### 10.2.1.2 UE maximum output power reduction

For the inter-band con-current V2X operation, the allowed maximum power
reduction (MPR) for the maximum output power shall be applied per each
component carrier based on the legacy MPR requirements per CC for
inter-band EN-DC at licensed bands.

#### 10.2.1.3 UE maximum output power with additional requirements

For the inter-band con-current V2X operation, the allowed additional
maximum power reduction (A-MPR) for the maximum output power shall be
applied per each component carrier based on the legacy A-MPR
requirements per CC for inter-band EN-DC at licensed bands.

#### 10.2.1.4 Configured transmitted power 

For the inter-band con-current V2X operation, the configured transmitted
power requirements for V2X UE shall be applied per each component
carrier. The legacy LTE or NR configured transmitted power for
inter-band EN DC shall be decided by MPR*~c~* and A-MPR*~c~* of each
CC*.*

If the total transmitted power is over the power class of the V2X UE or
given P~EMAX~,*c* for NR V2X service, the UE shall compare the priority
between the legacy LTE service on licensed band and NR SL V2X service at
licensed band. Based on the priority, the configured transmitted power
will be decided which transmission will be applied on power scale down
or dropping between the legacy LTE Uu transmission and NR V2X SL
transmission at licensed band.

The ΔT~IB,V2X~ of P~CMAX,*c*,Uu~ is considered to determine maximum
output power for corresponding V2X con-current operating bands

Table 10.2.1.4-1: ΔT~IB,V2X~ for inter-band con-current V2X operation
(two bands)

  V2X con-current operating band Configuration                                                                                                                     Operating Band   ΔT~IB,V2X~ \[dB\]
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- -------------------
  V2X\_20\_n38                                                                                                                                                     20               0.0^1^
  Note 1: The ΔT~IB,V2X~ is applied on top of ΔT~IB,c~ of DC\_20A\_n38A UE that is considered harmonic trap filter to reduce 3^rd^ harmonic impact from Band 20.                    

#### 10.2.1.5 UE Minimum output power 

Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current
V2X UE. The legacy minimum output power requirements will be applied on
each CC of LTE or NR bands.

#### 10.2.1.6 Transmit OFF power 

Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current
V2X UE. The legacy transmit OFF power requirements will be applied on
each CC of LTE or NR bands.

#### 10.2.1.7 ON/OFF time mask 

When UE support inter-band con-current V2X operation in Table 10.2-1,
the existing general time mask for LTE or NR UE will be applied on LTE
or NR Uu operation CC in LTE or NR licensed band and the NR V2X general
time mask for NR V2X UE will be applied on NR SL operation CC.

#### 10.2.1.8 Power control

Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current
V2X UE. The legacy power control requirements will be applied on each CC
of LTE or NR licensed band the NR V2X power control for NR V2X UE will
be applied on NR SL operation CC.

#### 10.2.1.9 Transmit signal quality

##### 10.2.1.9.1 Frequency error

> Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current
> V2X UE. The legacy frequency error requirements will be applied on
> each CC of LTE or NR bands.

##### 10.2.1.9.2 Transmit modulation quality

##### 10.2.1.9.2.1 Error Vector Magnitude {#error-vector-magnitude-2 .H6}

> Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current
> V2X UE. The legacy EVM requirements will be applied on each CC of LTE
> or NR bands.

##### 10.2.1.9.2.2 Carrier leakage {#carrier-leakage-2 .H6}

> Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current
> V2X UE. The legacy carrier leakage requirements will be applied on
> each CC of LTE or NR bands.

##### 10.2.1.9.2.3 In-band emissions {#in-band-emissions-2 .H6}

> Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current
> V2X UE. The legacy in-band emission requirements will be applied on
> each CC of LTE or NR bands.

##### 10.2.1.9.2.4 EVM equalizer spectrum flatness {#evm-equalizer-spectrum-flatness-2 .H6}

> Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current
> V2X UE. The legacy spectrum flatness requirements will be applied on
> each CC of LTE or NR bands.

#### 10.2.1.10 Spectrum emission mask

Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current
V2X UE. The legacy general/additional SEM requirements will be applied
on each CC of LTE or NR bands.

#### 10.2.1.11 ACLR requirements

Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current
V2X UE. The legacy ACLR requirements will be applied on each CC of LTE
or NR bands.

#### 10.2.1.12 Spurious emission requirements

Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current
V2X UE. The legacy general spurious emission requirements will be
applied on each CC of LTE or NR bands.

#### 10.2.1.13 Spurious emission band UE co-existence

This clause specifies the spurious emission requirements of the
inter-band con-current V2X operation, for UE-to-UE coexistence to
protect legacy protected bands

Table 10.2.1.13-1: Requirements

+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+
| V2X    | Sp     |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| con-c  | urious |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| urrent | em     |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ope    | ission |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| rating |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| band   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| cofigu |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ration |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+
|        | Pro    | Fre    | M      | MBW    | NOTE |   |   |
|        | tected | quency | aximum | (MHz)  |      |   |   |
|        | band   | range  | Level  |        |      |   |   |
|        |        | (MHz)  | (dBm)  |        |      |   |   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+
| V2     | E-UTRA | F~DL   | \-     | F~DL\  | -50  | 1 |   |
| X\_20A | Band   | \_low~ |        | _high~ |      |   |   |
| \_n38A | 1, 3,  |        |        |        |      |   |   |
|        | 8, 22, |        |        |        |      |   |   |
|        | 31,    |        |        |        |      |   |   |
|        | 32,    |        |        |        |      |   |   |
|        | 33,    |        |        |        |      |   |   |
|        | 34,    |        |        |        |      |   |   |
|        | 40,    |        |        |        |      |   |   |
|        | 43,    |        |        |        |      |   |   |
|        | 50,    |        |        |        |      |   |   |
|        | 51,    |        |        |        |      |   |   |
|        | 65,    |        |        |        |      |   |   |
|        | 67,    |        |        |        |      |   |   |
|        | 68,    |        |        |        |      |   |   |
|        | 72,    |        |        |        |      |   |   |
|        | 74,    |        |        |        |      |   |   |
|        | 75, 76 |        |        |        |      |   |   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+
|        | E-UTRA | F~DL   | \-     | F~DL\  | -50  | 1 | 2 |
|        | Band   | \_low~ |        | _high~ |      |   |   |
|        | 20     |        |        |        |      |   |   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+
|        | E-UTRA | F~DL   | \-     | F~DL\  | -50  | 1 | 1 |
|        | Band   | \_low~ |        | _high~ |      |   |   |
|        | 42,    |        |        |        |      |   |   |
|        | 52,    |        |        |        |      |   |   |
|        |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
|        | NR     |        |        |        |      |   |   |
|        | Band   |        |        |        |      |   |   |
|        | n77,   |        |        |        |      |   |   |
|        | n78    |        |        |        |      |   |   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+
|        |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+
|        |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+
|        |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+
| NOTE   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| 1: As  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| excep  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| tions, |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| measur |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ements |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| with a |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| level  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| up to  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| the    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| appl   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| icable |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| requir |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ements |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| d      |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| efined |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| in     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| Table  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| 6.6    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| .3.1-2 |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| are    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| per    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| mitted |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| for    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| each   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| as     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| signed |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| E-UTRA |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| c      |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| arrier |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| used   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| in the |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| measu  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| rement |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| due to |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| 2^nd^, |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| 3^rd^, |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| 4^th^  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| \[or   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| 5      |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ^th^\] |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ha     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| rmonic |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| sp     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| urious |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| emis   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| sions. |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| In     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| case   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| the    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| exce   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ptions |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| are    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| a      |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| llowed |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| due to |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| spr    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| eading |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| of the |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ha     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| rmonic |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| em     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ission |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| the    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| exc    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| eption |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| is     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| also   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| a      |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| llowed |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| for    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| the    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| first  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| 1 MHz  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| fre    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| quency |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| range  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| immed  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| iately |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| o      |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| utside |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| the    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ha     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| rmonic |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| em     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ission |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| on     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| both   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| sides  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| of the |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ha     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| rmonic |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| emi    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ssion. |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| This   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| r      |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| esults |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| in an  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| o      |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| verall |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| exc    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| eption |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| in     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| terval |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| c      |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| entred |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| at the |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ha     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| rmonic |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| em     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ission |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| of     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| (2MHz  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| + N x  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| L~CRB~ |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| x      |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| 18     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| 0kHz), |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| where  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| N is   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| 2, 3   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| or 4   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| for    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| the    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| 2^nd^, |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| 3^rd^  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| or     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| 4^th^  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ha     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| rmonic |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| r      |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| espect |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ively. |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| The    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| exc    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| eption |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| is     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| a      |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| llowed |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| if the |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| measu  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| rement |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ban    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| dwidth |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| (MBW)  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| t      |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| otally |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| or     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| par    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| tially |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ov     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| erlaps |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| the    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| o      |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| verall |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| exc    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| eption |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| int    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| erval. |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
|        |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| NOTE   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| 2:     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| These  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| requir |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ements |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| also   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| apply  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| for    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| the    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| fre    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| quency |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ranges |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| that   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| are    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| less   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| than   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| F~OOB~ |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| (MHz)  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| in     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| Table  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| 6.5    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| .3.1-1 |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| from   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| the    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| edge   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| of the |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| c      |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| hannel |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| band   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| width. |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
|        |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| NOTE   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| 3:     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| This   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| requi  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| rement |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| is     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| appl   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| icable |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| for    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| power  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| class  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| 3 UE   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| for    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| any    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| c      |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| hannel |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| band   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| widths |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| within |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| the    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| range  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| 2570 - |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| 2615   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| MHz    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| with   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| the    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| fol    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| lowing |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| restri |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ction: |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| for    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ca     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| rriers |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| of 15  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| MHz    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ban    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| dwidth |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| when   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| c      |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| arrier |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| centre |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| fre    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| quency |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| is     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| within |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| the    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| range  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| 2605.5 |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| -      |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| 2607.5 |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| MHz    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| and    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| for    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ca     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| rriers |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| of 20  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| MHz    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ban    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| dwidth |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| when   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| c      |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| arrier |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| centre |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| fre    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| quency |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| is     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| within |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| the    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| range  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| 2597 - |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| 2605   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| MHz    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| the    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| requi  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| rement |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| is     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| appl   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| icable |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| only   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| for an |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| uplink |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| transm |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ission |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ban    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| dwidth |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| less   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| than   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| or     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| equal  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| to 54  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| RB.    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| For    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| power  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| class  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| 2 UE   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| for    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| any    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| c      |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| hannel |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| band   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| widths |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| within |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| the    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| range  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| 2570 - |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| 2615   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| MHz,   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| NS\_44 |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| shall  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| apply. |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| For    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| power  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| class  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| 2 or 3 |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| UE for |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ca     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| rriers |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| with   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| c      |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| hannel |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ban    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| dwidth |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| overl  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| apping |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| the    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| fre    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| quency |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| range  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| 2615 - |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| 2620   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| MHz    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| the    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| requi  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| rement |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| a      |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| pplies |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| with   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| the    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| m      |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| aximum |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| output |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| power  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| conf   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| igured |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| to +19 |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| dBm in |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| the IE |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| P-Max. |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
|        |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| NOTE 4 |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| For    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| these  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ad     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| jacent |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| bands, |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| the    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| em     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ission |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| limit  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| could  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| imply  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| risk   |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| of     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| h      |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| armful |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| interf |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| erence |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| to     |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| UE(s)  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ope    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| rating |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| in the |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| pro    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| tected |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| ope    |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| rating |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
| band.  |        |        |        |        |      |   |   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+

#### 10.2.1.14 Transmit intermodulation

Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current
V2X UE. The legacy transmit intermodulation requirements will be applied
on each CC of LTE or NR bands.

### 10.2.2 Rx requirements for inter-band con-current NR V2X operation

#### 10.2.2.1 REFSENS

For the V2X UE RF receiver requirements, RAN4 can refer the 2DL
inter-band CA to define general UE RF Rx requirements for inter-band
con-current V2X UE.

The legacy REFSENS requirement will be applied on each CC of NR licensed
bands if there was no self-interference problems in own receiver
frequency band by own uplink and sidelink transmission.

Table 10.2.2.1-1 and Table 10.2.2.1-2 propose the uplink test
configurations for inter-band con-current V2X REFSENS requirements. For
the uplink configuration, RAN4 consider 10MHz Channel bandwidth.

Table 10.2.2.1-1: Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity of V2X
UE (PC5)

+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+-------+---------+
| Int     | LTE or  |         |         |       |       |         |
| er-band | NR UL   |         |         |       |       |         |
| V2X     | band /  |         |         |       |       |         |
| con-    | Channel |         |         |       |       |         |
| current | BW /    |         |         |       |       |         |
| band    | N~RB~ / |         |         |       |       |         |
| config  | Duplex  |         |         |       |       |         |
| uration | mode    |         |         |       |       |         |
+=========+=========+=========+=========+=======+=======+=========+
| V2X     | LTE or  | LTE or  | Channel | SCS   | N~RB~ | Duplex  |
| band    | NR band | NR UL   | Ba      |       |       | Mode    |
| (PC5)   | (Uu)    | band    | ndwidth | (kHz) |       |         |
|         |         |         | (MHz)   |       |       |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+-------+---------+
| n38     | B20     | B20     | 10      | 15    | 50    | FDD     |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+-------+---------+

Table 10.2.2.1-2: SL Tx configuration for reference sensitivity of V2X
UE (Uu)

+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+-------+---------+
| Int     |         | LTE or  |         |       |       |         |
| er-band |         | NR UL   |         |       |       |         |
| V2X     |         | band /  |         |       |       |         |
| con-    |         | Channel |         |       |       |         |
| current |         | BW /    |         |       |       |         |
| band    |         | N~RB~ / |         |       |       |         |
| config  |         | Duplex  |         |       |       |         |
| uration |         | mode    |         |       |       |         |
+=========+=========+=========+=========+=======+=======+=========+
| V2X     | LTE or  | NR V2X  | Channel | SCS   | N~RB~ | Duplex  |
| band    | NR band | band    | Ba      |       |       | Mode    |
| (PC5)   | (Uu)    | (PC5)   | ndwidth | (kHz) |       |         |
|         |         |         | (MHz)   |       |       |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+-------+---------+
| n38     | B20     | n38     | 10      | 15    | 50    | HD      |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+-------+---------+
|         |         |         |         | 30    | 24    |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+-------+---------+
|         |         |         |         | 60    | 10    |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+-------+---------+

Table 10.2.2.1-3 is proposed the REFSENS requirements with inter-band
con-current V2X UE reception without any self-interference problem.

Table 10.2.2.1-3: Reference sensitivity for V2X QPSK P~REFSENS~

  -------------------------- ------------------------- ---------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- --------- -------------- -------------- -------------
  Inter-band V2X reception   Channel bandwidth                                                                                                           

  V2X Band                   LTE or NR V2X band (Uu)   LTE or NR Band   SCS (kHz)   5 MHz\   10 MHz\   15 MHz\   20 MHz\   30 MHz (dBm)   40 MHz (dBm)   Duplex Mode
                                                                                    (dBm)    (dBm)     (dBm)     (dBm)                                   

  n38                        B20                       B20              15          -97      -94       -91.2     -90                                     FDD

                                                       n38              15                   -96.5               -93.2     -91.4          -90.1          HD

                                                                        30                   -96.11              -93.4     -91.7          -90.2          

                                                                        60                   -966.99             -93.1     -91.9          -90.4          
  -------------------------- ------------------------- ---------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- --------- -------------- -------------- -------------

Table 10.1.2.2-4 is proposed additional Rx insertion loss according to
harmonic trap filter to reduce the harmonic problem based on specific
self desense analysis according to specific NR V2X inter-band
con-current operation.

Table 10.2.2.1-4: ΔR~IB,V2X~ (two bands)

  V2X inter-band con-current band Combination                                                                                                                    V2X operating Band   ΔR~IB,V2X~ \[dB\]   Note
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------- -----------------------------------------
  V2X\_20\_n38                                                                                                                                                   20                   0.0^1^              3^rd^ harmonic from B20 impact into n38
  Note 1: The ΔR~IB,V2X~ is applied on top of ΔR~IB,c~ of DC\_20\_n38 UE that is considered harmonic trap filter to reduce 3^rd^ harmonic impact from Band 20.                                            

#### 10.2.2.1a Reference sensitivity exception due to UL harmonic problem

Sensitivity degradation is allowed for a band if it is impacted by UL
harmonic interference from another band part of the inter-band
con-current V2X UE. Reference sensitivity exceptions (MSD) for the
victim band (high) are specified in Table 10.2.2.1a-1 with uplink
configuration of the aggressor band (low) specified in Table
10.2.2.1a-2.

Table 10.2.2.1a-1: Reference sensitivity exceptions (MSD) due to UL
harmonic for inter-band con-current operation

+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+---------+--------+
| V2X     | Op      |         |        |        |         |        |
| int     | erating |         |        |        |         |        |
| er-band | Bands / |         |        |        |         |        |
| con-    | Channel |         |        |        |         |        |
| current | ba      |         |        |        |         |        |
| band    | ndwidth |         |        |        |         |        |
| combi   | of the  |         |        |        |         |        |
| nations | a       |         |        |        |         |        |
|         | ffected |         |        |        |         |        |
|         | DL band |         |        |        |         |        |
|         | / MSD   |         |        |        |         |        |
+=========+=========+=========+========+========+=========+========+
| V2X\_   | UL band | SL      | 10 MHz | 20 MHz | 30 MHz  | 40 MHz |
| 20\_n38 |         | op      |        |        | (dB)    |        |
|         |         | eration | (dB)   | (dB)   |         | (dB)   |
+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+---------+--------+
|         | 20      | n38     | 10.7   | 7.7    | 5.8     | 4.7    |
+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+---------+--------+
| NOTE 1: |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| These   |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| requi   |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| rements |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| apply   |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| when    |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| there   |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| is at   |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| least   |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| one     |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| ind     |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| ividual |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| RE      |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| within  |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| the     |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| uplink  |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| trans   |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| mission |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| ba      |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| ndwidth |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| of the  |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| ag      |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| gressor |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| (lower) |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| for     |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| which   |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| the 3rd |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| tran    |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| smitter |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| h       |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| armonic |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| is      |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| within  |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| the     |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| s       |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| idelink |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| trans   |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| mission |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| ba      |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| ndwidth |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| of a    |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| victim  |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| (       |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| higher) |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| band.   |         |         |        |        |         |        |
|         |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| NOTE 2: |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| The     |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| requi   |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| rements |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| should  |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| be      |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| v       |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| erified |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| for UL  |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| EARFCN  |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| of the  |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| ag      |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| gressor |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| (lower) |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| band    |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| (supe   |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| rscript |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| LB such |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| that in |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| MHz and |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| with    |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| the     |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| carrier |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| fr      |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| equency |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| in the  |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| victim  |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| (       |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| higher) |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| band in |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| MHz and |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| the     |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| channel |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| ba      |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| ndwidth |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| con     |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| figured |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| in the  |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| low     |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| band.   |         |         |        |        |         |        |
|         |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| NOTE 3: |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| The MSD |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| level   |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| applied |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| to all  |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| su      |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| pported |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| SCSs in |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| victim  |         |         |        |        |         |        |
| band.   |         |         |        |        |         |        |
+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+---------+--------+

Table 10.2.2.1a-2: Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity
exceptions due to UL harmonic interference for inter-band con-current
V2X in NR FR1

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| E-UTRA   |          |          |          |          |          |
| or NR    |          |          |          |          |          |
| Band /   |          |          |          |          |          |
| Channel  |          |          |          |          |          |
| b        |          |          |          |          |          |
| andwidth |          |          |          |          |          |
| of the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| affected |          |          |          |          |          |
| DL band  |          |          |          |          |          |
| / UL RB  |          |          |          |          |          |
| al       |          |          |          |          |          |
| location |          |          |          |          |          |
| of the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| agressor |          |          |          |          |          |
| band     |          |          |          |          |          |
+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+
| UL band  | SL       | 10       | 20 MHz   | 30 MHz   | 40 MHz   |
|          | o        |          |          |          |          |
|          | peration | MHz      | (L~CRB~) | (L~CRB~) | (L~CRB~) |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          | (L~CRB~) |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 20       | n38      | 25       | 50       | 50       | 50       |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| The UL   |          |          |          |          |          |
| confi    |          |          |          |          |          |
| guration |          |          |          |          |          |
| applies  |          |          |          |          |          |
| re       |          |          |          |          |          |
| gardless |          |          |          |          |          |
| of the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| channel  |          |          |          |          |          |
| b        |          |          |          |          |          |
| andwidth |          |          |          |          |          |
| of the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| UL band  |          |          |          |          |          |
| unless   |          |          |          |          |          |
| the UL   |          |          |          |          |          |
| resource |          |          |          |          |          |
| blocks   |          |          |          |          |          |
| exceed   |          |          |          |          |          |
| that     |          |          |          |          |          |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |
| pecified |          |          |          |          |          |
| in Table |          |          |          |          |          |
| 7.3.1-2  |          |          |          |          |          |
| in TS    |          |          |          |          |          |
| 36.101   |          |          |          |          |          |
| \[4\] or |          |          |          |          |          |
| Table    |          |          |          |          |          |
| 7.3.2-3  |          |          |          |          |          |
| in TS    |          |          |          |          |          |
| 38.101-1 |          |          |          |          |          |
| \[2\]    |          |          |          |          |          |
| for the  |          |          |          |          |          |
| uplink   |          |          |          |          |          |
| b        |          |          |          |          |          |
| andwidth |          |          |          |          |          |
| in which |          |          |          |          |          |
| case the |          |          |          |          |          |
| al       |          |          |          |          |          |
| location |          |          |          |          |          |
| a        |          |          |          |          |          |
| ccording |          |          |          |          |          |
| to Table |          |          |          |          |          |
| 7.3.1-2  |          |          |          |          |          |
| in TS    |          |          |          |          |          |
| 36.101   |          |          |          |          |          |
| \[4\] or |          |          |          |          |          |
| Table    |          |          |          |          |          |
| 7.3.2-3  |          |          |          |          |          |
| in TS    |          |          |          |          |          |
| 38.101-1 |          |          |          |          |          |
| \[2\]    |          |          |          |          |          |
| applies  |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

#### 10.2.2.2 Maximum input level

No need to define additional requirements for con-current inter-band V2X
operation since NR UE shall meet the requirements per each carrier while
all downlink carriers are active.

#### 10.2.2.3 The other Rx requirements

The other Rx requirements for inter-band con-current V2X UE can be
reused. The legacy other RX requirement will be applied on each CC of NR
licensed bands.

\- ACS: Keep the same requirements per CC

\- In band Blocking: Keep the same requirements per CC. For the
inter-band con-current V2X UE, P~Interferer~ power is increased by
ΔR~IB,c~ in the requirement.

\- Out-of-Band Blocking: Keep the same requirements per CC. For the
inter-band con-current V2X UE, P~Interferer~ power is increased by
ΔR~IB,c~ in the requirement.

\- Narrow Band Blocking: NR **NBB requirements only** applied on CC of
**NR licensed bands.**

\- Spurious response: Keep the same requirements per CC. For the
inter-band con-current V2X UE, P~Interferer~ power is increased by
ΔR~IB,c~ in the requirement.

\- Wideband inter-modulation: Keep the same requirements per CC. For the
inter-band con-current V2X UE, P~Interferer~ power is increased by
ΔR~IB,c~ in the requirement.

10.3 NR V2X SL operation in 5.9GHz or other potential ITS spectrum and NR Uu operation in licensed bands for FR2
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

10.4 NR V2X SL operation and NR Uu operation both in licensed bands for FR2
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

11 Conclusion and recommendations
=================================

According to the coexistence simulation results at both licensed band
and ITS spectrum in section 5.4, RAN4 made consensus for the NR V2X
deployment scenarios in section 4.3.1.

Based on the NR V2X operating scenarios, RAN4 studied and specified the
NR V2X UE RF requirements to support the following scenarios to comply
the regional regulatory requirements in FR1.

\- Specify operating NR V2X bands and system parameters (Section 7)

\- Specify RF core requirements in the ITS spectrum (Section 8 and 9)

\- Specify additional-SEM requirements to comply regional regulation

\- Specify the restricted max. power to protect CEN DSRC tolling system

\- Specify RF core requirements for NR SL (at n47) and LTE SL (at B47)
as TDM for Tx transmission and simultaneous receptions (Section 8 and 9)

\- Specify RF core requirements for licensed bands (Section 8 and 9)

\- Specify RF core requirements for inter-band con-current operation
(Section 10)

Above RF core requirements for NR V2X operating scenarios in TR38.886,
RAN4 will specify NR V2X UE RF core requirements in TS38.101-1 and
TS38.101-3 for NR V2X operation in FR1.

######## Annex A Link level simulation mapping model for NR V2X

The detail link level simulation parameters are shown in Table A- 1. The
reference for SNR-TO-BLER mapping model for NR V2V system is shown in
following Table A- 2 according to the operating frequency bands
respectively.

Table A-1 Detail link-level simulation parameters for NR V2X

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| parameter                        | Assumption                       |
+==================================+==================================+
| Bandwidth                        | 40MHz                            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Carrier frequency                | 2 GHz/ 3.5GHz/ 5.9GHz            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| numerology                       | 15 kHz                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Number of antenna                | 1T2R                             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| channel                          | Urban-LOS                        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Modulation                       | QPSK                             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Coding                           | LDPC                             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| TB size                          | 1100 Bytes                       |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Number of Occupied PRB           | 70                               |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DMRS configuration               | Rel-15 PDSCH DMRS Configuration  |
|                                  | type 2                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| DMRS symbol index                | 1, 8 for 30 km/h                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 1,4,8,12 for 120 km/h            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Symbols number in a slot         | 14(including one symbol AGC      |
|                                  | symbol and 1 symbol gap)         |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Relative speed                   | 30km/h and 120km/h               |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Retransmission                   | Off^2^                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| The maximum transmission number  | 1                                |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| synchronization                  | No timing error                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Note 1: These all link level     |                                  |
| assumptions are only intended    |                                  |
| for evaluation of SNR-TO-BLER in |                                  |
| RAN4 coexistence study.          |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
| Note 2 Retransmission option of  |                                  |
| 1,2 or 3 is .not precluded based |                                  |
| on contributions from other      |                                  |
| companies.                       |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

Table A- 2 Reference table of Link level BLER vs. SNR for NR V2X

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| SNR(dB) | Centre  | Centre  | Centre  |         |         |         |
|         | fr      | fr      | fr      |         |         |         |
|         | equency | equency | equency |         |         |         |
|         | 2GHz    | 3.5GHz  | 5.9GHz  |         |         |         |
+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+
|         | R       | R       | R       | R       | R       | R       |
|         | elative | elative | elative | elative | elative | elative |
|         | Speed   | Speed   | Speed   | Speed   | Speed   | Speed   |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | 30Km/h  | 120Km/h | 30Km/h  | 120Km/h | 30Km/h  | 120Km/h |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| -10     | 1       | 1       | 1       | 1       | 1       | 1       |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| -9      | 1       | 1       | 1       | 1       | 1       | 1       |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| -8      | 1       | 1       | 1       | 1       | 1       | 1       |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| -7      | 0.9997  | 1       | 0.9998  | 0.9999  | 1       | 1       |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| -6      | 0.9978  | 0.9993  | 0.9988  | 0.9996  | 0.9992  | 0.9997  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| -5      | 0.9915  | 0.9944  | 0.9917  | 0.996   | 0.9934  | 0.9991  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| -4      | 0.9697  | 0.9769  | 0.9736  | 0.9845  | 0.9756  | 0.9926  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| -3      | 0.9244  | 0.9385  | 0.9322  | 0.9535  | 0.9331  | 0.9738  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| -2      | 0.8436  | 0.8688  | 0.8509  | 0.8901  | 0.8575  | 0.9265  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| -1      | 0.7319  | 0.7666  | 0.7404  | 0.7992  | 0.7524  | 0.8415  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 0       | 0.6007  | 0.6448  | 0.6081  | 0.6718  | 0.6317  | 0.7205  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 1       | 0.4691  | 0.5075  | 0.4764  | 0.5329  | 0.4948  | 0.5757  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 2       | 0.3455  | 0.3802  | 0.3612  | 0.3953  | 0.3691  | 0.429   |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 3       | 0.2454  | 0.272   | 0.2562  | 0.2783  | 0.2614  | 0.3018  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 4       | 0.1671  | 0.1907  | 0.1737  | 0.1859  | 0.1762  | 0.1959  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 5       | 0.1034  | 0.1218  | 0.11    | 0.1122  | 0.1105  | 0.1192  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 6       | 0.0611  | 0.0736  | 0.0699  | 0.0663  | 0.0712  | 0.0664  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 7       | 0.0337  | 0.0409  | 0.0391  | 0.0381  | 0.0412  | 0.0331  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8       | 0.0175  | 0.0198  | 0.0213  | 0.0192  | 0.0222  | 0.0157  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 9       | 0.009   | 0.0092  | 0.0111  | 0.0085  | 0.0109  | 0.007   |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 10      | 0.0039  | 0.004   | 0.0055  | 0.0032  | 0.0048  | 0.0026  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 11      | 0.0014  | 0.0015  | 0.0025  | 0.001   | 0.002   | 0       |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 12      | 0       | 0       | 0       | 0       | 0       | 0       |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

######## [ ]{.underline}Annex B (Informative): Change history

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **C   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hange |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hist  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ory** |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| **D   | *     | **T   | *     | **    | **    | **Su  | **New |
| ate** | *Meet | Doc** | *CR** | Rev** | Cat** | bject | vers  |
|       | ing** |       |       |       |       | /Comm | ion** |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ent** |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN4  | R4-19 |       |       |       | TR3   | 0.0.1 |
| 19-04 | \#    | 05096 |       |       |       | 8.886 |       |
|       | 90BIS |       |       |       |       | v0    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .0.1: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ske   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | leton |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rvice |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SL    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN4  | R4-19 |       |       |       | TR3   | 0.1.0 |
| 19-05 | \#91  | 06061 |       |       |       | 8.886 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | v0    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .1.0: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | u     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pdate |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rvice |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SL    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       | App   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | roved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lists |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN4  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \#91  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | me    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-19 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 06851 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | In-d  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | evice |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oexis |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tence |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Scen  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | arios |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | [R4-1 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 90760 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7](fi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | le:// |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | /C:\U |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sers\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | admin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \AppD |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ata\L |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ocal\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Docs\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-19 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 07607 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .zip) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Edit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orial |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | orrec |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TR3   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8.886 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN4  | R4-19 |       |       |       | TR3   | 0.2.0 |
| 19-08 | \#92  | 08696 |       |       |       | 8.886 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | v0    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .2.0: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | u     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pdate |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rvice |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SL    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       | App   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | roved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lists |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN4  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \#92  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | me    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-19 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 08378 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | band  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | band  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | width |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | [R4-1 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 91039 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3](fi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | le:// |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | /C:\U |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sers\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | admin |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \AppD |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ata\L |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ocal\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Docs\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-19 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 07607 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .zip) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | band  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | band  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | width |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-19 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 10400 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | adj   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | acent |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ch    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | annel |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | -exis |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tence |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | scen  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | arios |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | param |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eters |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rvice |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | FR1   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-19 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 08351 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Adj   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | acent |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Ch    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | annel |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oexis |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tence |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-19 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 08973 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PRR   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | p     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | erfor |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mance |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | me    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | trics |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oexis |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tence |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | simul |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN4  | R4-19 |       |       |       | TR3   | 0.3.0 |
| 19-10 | \#    | 11451 |       |       |       | 8.886 |       |
|       | 92BIS |       |       |       |       | v0    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .3.0: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | u     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pdate |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rvice |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SL    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       | App   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | roved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lists |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN4  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \#    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 92BIS |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | me    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4-191 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2307, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \"TP  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | In-d  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | evice |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Coex  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | isten |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ce,\" |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4-191 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2887, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \"TP  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Ge    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | neral |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Tx/Rx |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | quire |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UE,\" |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4-191 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3062, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \"TP  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ating |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | scen  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | arios |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Servi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ce,\" |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4-191 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3065, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \"\[  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X\] |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sub-c |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lause |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | title |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2X,\" |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4-191 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3066, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \"TP  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to TR |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8.886 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oexis |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tence |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | simul |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | resul |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ts,\" |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4-191 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3069, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \"\[  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X\] |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | link  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | level |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | simul |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ma    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pping |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2X,\" |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN4  | R4-19 |       |       |       | TR3   | 0.4.0 |
| 19-11 | \#93  | 13967 |       |       |       | 8.886 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | v0    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .4.0: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | u     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pdate |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rvice |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SL    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       | App   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | roved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lists |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN4  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \#93  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | me    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | [R4-1 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 91614 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 7](fi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | le:// |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | /D:\R |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AN4\T |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SGRAN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4_93\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Docs\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-19 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 16147 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .zip) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ch    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | annel |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | r     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | aster |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UE    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | [R4-1 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 91614 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8](fi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | le:// |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | /D:\R |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AN4\T |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SGRAN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4_93\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Docs\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-19 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 16148 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .zip) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mo    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dific |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | co    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | -exis |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tence |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | concl |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | usion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rvice |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | [R4-1 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 91598 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4](fi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | le:// |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | /D:\R |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AN4\T |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SGRAN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4_93\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Docs\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-19 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 15984 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .zip) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \[    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X\] |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP to |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | add   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | some  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | abb   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | revia |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | [R4-1 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 91449 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4](fi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | le:// |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | /D:\R |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AN4\T |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SGRAN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4_93\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Docs\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-19 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 14494 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .zip) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \[    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X\] |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP to |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | clean |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | up NR |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oexis |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tence |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | simul |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | assum |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-19 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 16163 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP to |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UE to |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UE    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oexis |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tence |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | study |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of NR |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | at    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .9GHz |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | [R4-1 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 91598 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 8](fi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | le:// |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | /D:\R |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AN4\T |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SGRAN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4_93\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Docs\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-19 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 15988 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .zip) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RF    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | quire |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | [R4-1 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 91614 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3](fi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | le:// |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | /D:\R |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AN4\T |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SGRAN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4_93\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Docs\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-19 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 16143 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .zip) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UE RF |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | quire |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | suppo |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 30MHz |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CBW   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 56QAM |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | at    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | n47   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | [R4-1 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 91614 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4](fi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | le:// |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | /D:\R |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AN4\T |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SGRAN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4_93\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Docs\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-19 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 16144 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .zip) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ge    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | neral |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Tx/Rx |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | quire |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UE at |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lic   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ensed |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bands |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | [R4-1 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 91395 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3](fi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | le:// |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | /D:\R |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AN4\T |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SGRAN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4_93\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Docs\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-19 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 13953 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .zip) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RF    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | core  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | quire |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | c     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on-cu |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rrent |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of NR |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UE    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | [R4-1 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 91614 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5](fi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | le:// |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | /D:\R |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | AN4\T |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SGRAN |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4_93\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Docs\ |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-19 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 16145 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .zip) |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \[    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X\] |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MPR   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | simul |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | assum |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ption |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | band  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | n47   |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN4  | R4-20 |       |       |       | TR3   | 0.5.0 |
| 20-02 | \     | 01214 |       |       |       | 8.886 |       |
|       | #94-e |       |       |       |       | v0    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .5.0: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | u     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pdate |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rvice |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SL    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       |       |       |       |       | App   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | roved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TPs   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | draft |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CRs   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | list  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN4  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | #94-e |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | me    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-20 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 01215 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Su    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | mmary |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | E     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | -mail |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | discu |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-20 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 01221 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | concl |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | usion |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of NR |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | WI    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-20 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 02795 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ch    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | annel |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | a     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rrang |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ement |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-20 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 02788 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dr    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | aftCR |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 38.   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 101-1 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on-cu |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rrent |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | N     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R-V2X |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-20 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 02789 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dr    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | aftCR |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 38.   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 101-3 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | C     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on-cu |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rrent |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | N     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R-V2X |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-20 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 02785 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | addit |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ional |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | O     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | n/OFF |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Swit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ching |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Time  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Mask  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TDM   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | be    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tween |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | LTE   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SL    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR SL |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | at    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | n47   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-20 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 02763 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Draft |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CR on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UE    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | T     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ransm |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | itter |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | quire |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ingle |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ca    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rrier |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-20 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 02761 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | vised |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MPR   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | simul |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | a     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssump |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | u     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pdate |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | quire |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cover |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | open  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | issue |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-20 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 02783 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | A-MPR |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | simul |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | a     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssump |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tions |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | itial |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sults |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | at    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | n47   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-20 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 02786 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Draft |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CR on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | addit |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ional |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | O     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | n/OFF |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Swit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ching |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Time  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Mask  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TDM   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | be    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tween |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | LTE   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SL    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR SL |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | at    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | n47   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-20 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 02792 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dr    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | aftCR |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 38.   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 101-1 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UL    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MIMO  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | N     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R-V2X |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-20 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 02796 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | T     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | S38.1 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 01-1, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Intr  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oduce |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Rx    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | quire |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-20 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 02797 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | T     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | S38.1 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 01-3, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Intr  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oduce |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Rx    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | quire |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | concu |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rrent |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN4  | R4-20 |       |       |       | TR3   | 0.6.0 |
| 20-04 | \#94- | 05739 |       |       |       | 8.886 |       |
|       | e-BIS |       |       |       |       | v0    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .6.0: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | u     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pdate |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rvice |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SL    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | flect |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | app   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | roved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TPs   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | #94-e |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \#94- |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | e-BIS |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | me    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | App   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | roved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TPS   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Draft |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CRs   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | list  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN4  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \#94- |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | e-BIS |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | me    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-20 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 05226 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rema  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ining |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | i     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssues |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UE    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-20 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 05632 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RE    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | FSENS |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | quire |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-20 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 05636 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Inde  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | viceC |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oexis |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tence |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-20 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 05639 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ch    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | annel |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | bandw |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | idths |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | lic   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ensed |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | band  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | n38   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-20 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 05645 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Draft |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 38.   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 101-3 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | In    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | trodu |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ction |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | of NR |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | cross |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAT   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | quire |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-20 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 05228 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Up    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dated |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CR on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | i     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ntrod |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ucing |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RF    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | quire |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 5G    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rvice |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS38. |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 101-1 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | r     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | el-16 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-20 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 05633 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Draft |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | T     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | S38.1 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 01-1, |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Intr  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oduce |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Rx    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | quire |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ingle |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ca    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rrier |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 20    | RAN4  | R4-20 |       |       |       | TR3   | 1.0.0 |
| 20-05 | \     | 06745 |       |       |       | 8.886 |       |
|       | #95-e |       |       |       |       | v1    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .0.0: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | u     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pdate |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | se    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rvice |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | with  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | SL    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | oper  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | flect |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | the   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | app   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | roved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TPs   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN4  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | #95-3 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | me    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | App   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | roved |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TPs   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Draft |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CRs   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | l     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | isted |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RAN4  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | #95-e |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | me    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | eting |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-20 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 08456 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | CR on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UE RF |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | quire |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | s     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ingle |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ca    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rrier |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS38. |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 101-1 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-20 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 09149 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rema  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ining |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | i     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssues |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | UE    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-20 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 08445 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TX    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | dive  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rsity |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | N     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R-V2X |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-20 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 09163 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Dr    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | aftCR |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sp    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ecify |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | MPR\  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \AMPR |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | quire |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | PC3   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | band  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | n47   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-20 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 08444 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Dr    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | aftCR |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | to    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | sp    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ecify |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | confi |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | gured |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | t     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ransm |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | itted |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | power |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | in    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | band  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | n47   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-20 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 08449 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TP on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rema  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ining |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | i     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssues |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | on Rx |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | RF    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | re    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | quire |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ments |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | R4-20 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 09168 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | WF on |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | rema  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ining |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | i     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ssues |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS38. |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 101-1 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | and   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | TS38. |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 101-3 |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | for   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | NR    |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | V2X   |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | WI    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

  **Change history**                                                                                                                                      
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                                         **New version**
  2020-06              RAN\#88                                                Approved by plenary -- Rel-16 spec under change control                     16.0.0
  2020-09              RAN\#89       RP-201492   0003     1         F         CR for TR38.886: Correction on TR38.886 for V2X UE Tx and Rx requirements   16.1.0
  2020-12              RAN\#90       RP-202443   0001     1         F         CR to TR 38.831 on beam correspondence corrections                          16.2.0
  2020-12              RAN\#90       RP-202443   0002     1         F         CR to TR 38.831 to include DL CA agreement                                  16.2.0
  2020-12              RAN\#90                   0004     1         F         Correction on update 5G V2X UE RF requirements in TR38.886                  16.2.0
  2020-12              RAN\#90                   0005     1         F         CR for 38.886, Time mask for TDM between NR V2X and LTE V2X in ITS band     16.2.0
  2021-03              RAN\#91       RP-210072   0006               F         CR for 38.886, General corrections for NR V2X                               16.3.0
