![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="0.9722222222222222in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[5](#abbreviations)

[5](#a-general)

[6](#void)

[6](#void-1)

[6](#void-2)

[6](#void-3)

[6](#void-4)

[6](#void-5)

[6](#void-6)

[6](#void-7)

[6](#void-8)

[6](#void-9)

[6](#void-10)

[7](#void-11)

[7](#void-12)

[7](#void-13)

[7](#void-14)

[7](#void-15)

[7](#void-16)

[7](#void-17)

[7](#void-18)

[7](#void-19)

[7](#void-20)

[7](#void-21)

[9](#annex-a-normative-void)

[10](#annex-b-normative-frequency-arrangement-for-overlapping-operating-bands)

[11](#annex-c-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations 3A
General 4 Void 5 Void 6 Void 7 Void 8 Void 9 Void 10 Void 11 Void 12
Void 13 Void 14 Void 15 Void 16 Void 17 Void 18 Void 19 Void 20 Void 21
Void 22 Void 23 Void 24 Void 25 Void Annex A (normative): Void Annex B
(normative): Frequency arrangement for overlapping operating bands Annex
C (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies requirements on UEs supporting a
frequency band that is independent of release.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] to \[29\] Void.

\[30\] 3GPP TS 25.101: \"UE Radio Transmission and Reception (FDD)\".

\[31\] 3GPP TS 25.102: \"UE Radio Transmission and Reception (TDD)\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in \[1\] apply.

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations
apply:

FDD Frequency Division Duplex

RRC Radio Resource Control

UE User Equipment

3A General
==========

TSG-RAN has agreed that the standardisation of new frequency bands may
be independent of a release. However, in order to implement a UE that
conforms to a particular release but supports a band of operation that
is specified in a later release, it is necessary to specify some extra
requirements.

For example, Band III is contained in the Release 5 specifications. In
order to implement a UE conforming to Release \'4 but supporting
Band III, it is necessary for the UE to additionally conform to some
parts of the Release 5 specifications, such as the radio frequency
requirements for the Band III and some signalling extensions relating to
the UE radio access capabilities.

NOTE: See NOTE in clause 4.4 in \[30\] or \[31\].

4 Void
======

5 Void
======

6 Void
======

7 Void
======

8 Void
======

9 Void
======

10 Void
=======

11 Void
=======

12 Void
=======

13 Void
=======

14 Void
=======

15 Void
=======

16 Void
=======

17 Void
=======

18 Void
=======

19 Void
=======

20 Void
=======

21 Void
=======

22 Void
=======

23 Void
=======

24 Void
=======

25 Void
=======

######## Annex A (normative): Void

######## Annex B (normative): Frequency arrangement for overlapping operating bands

The following information is provided in order to assist a UE to derive
the DL UARFCN and UL UARFCN in a multi-band environment, in which
multiple overlapping operating bands may be indicated in the IE
\"Multiple Frequency Band indicator list\" (System Information Block
type 5, System Information Block type 5bis and System Information Block
type 6), or the IE \"Multiple Frequency Info List FDD\" (System
Information Block type 11, System Information Block type 11bis and
System Information Block type 12).

The sets of bands (multi-band environment), independent of release, that
may be indicated in a cell are shown in Table B-1. Subsets of these may
also be indicated. The DL UARFCN and UL UARFCN are derived according to
\[25.101\].

Table B-1: Overlapping bands (multi-band environments) for each UTRA
band

  --------------------- ---------------------------------- -------------
  UTRA Operating Band   Overlapping UTRA operating bands   Duplex Mode
  2                     25                                 FDD
  3                     9                                  FDD
  4                     10                                 FDD
  5                     18, 19, 26                         FDD
  9                     3                                  FDD
  10                    4                                  FDD
  18                    5, 26                              FDD
  19                    5, 26                              FDD
  25                    2                                  FDD
  26                    5, 18, 19                          FDD
  --------------------- ---------------------------------- -------------

######## Annex C (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- --------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                                                                                          
  **Date**             **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                                                                                                           **New**
  09/2001              RP-13        RP-010557                                   Approved at TSG-RAN \#13 and placed under Change Control                                                                                      3.0.0
                       RP-13        RP-010558      001      1                   Correction to create Release 4                                                                                                                4.0.0
  12/2001              RP-14        RP-010759      003                          Inclusion of release independent RF related information                                                                                       4.1.0
  03/2002              RP-15        RP-020096      004                          Creation of Rel-5 specification                                                                                                               5.0.0
  12/2003              RP-22        RP-030630      010                          Introduction of UMTS800                                                                                                                       6.0.0
  03/2004              RP-23        RP-040092      016      1                   Frequency band alignment with 25.101                                                                                                          6.1.0
                       RP-23        RP-040090      023                          Introduction of UMTS1700/2100 (Band IV)                                                                                                       6.1.0
                       RP-23        RP-040091      027                          Introduction of UMTS850(Band V)                                                                                                               6.1.0
  09/2005              RP-29        RP-050467      0038                         Introduction of UMTS2600 internal band, Band VII                                                                                              6.2.0
  12/2005              RP-30        RP-050800      0042                         Introduction of UMTS 900 (Band VIII)                                                                                                          6.3.0
                       RP-30        RP-050801      0034                         Introduction of UMTS1700                                                                                                                      6.3.0
  06/2006              RP-32        RP-060369      0043                         Creation of release 7 version                                                                                                                 7.0.0
  12/2006              RP-34        RP-060715      0057                         Introduction of Band X (Extended UMTS 1.7/2.1 GHz) in 25.307                                                                                  7.1.0
  09/2007              RP-37        RP-070633      0066                         Introduction of Band XI                                                                                                                       8.0.0
  03/2008              RP-39        RP-080200      0072     \-                  Introduction of UMTS 700 MHz (Bands XII -- XIV) in 25.307                                                                                     8.1.0
  09/2008              RP-41        RP-080676      0077     \-                  Introduction of UMTS Band d in 25.307                                                                                                         8.2.0
  09/2008              RP-41        RP-080695      0082     \-                  Introduction of UMTS Band e in 25.307                                                                                                         8.2.0
  03/2009              RP-43        RP-090146      0087     \-                  Introduction of UMTS Band f in 25.307                                                                                                         8.3.0
  09/2009              RP-45        RP-090921      0089     \-                  Introduction of Band XIX                                                                                                                      8.4.0
  09/2009              RP-45        RP-090921      0088     1                   Introduction of Band XIX                                                                                                                      9.0.0
  12/2009              RP-46        RP-091333      0094     \-                  Editorial corrections for Introduction of Band XIX                                                                                            9.1.0
                       RP-46        RP-091335      0100     1                   Introduction of band XXI - 25.307                                                                                                             9.1.0
  03/2010              RP-47        RP-100302      0106     \-                  Introduction of band XX (800 MHz)                                                                                                             9.2.0
  03/2011              RP-51        \-             \-       \-                  Upgrade to Release 10 - no technical change                                                                                                   10.0.0
  06/2011              RP-52        RP-110844      0141     1                   Add Expanded 1900 MHz Band for UTRA and LTE to TS25.307                                                                                       10.1.0
  09/2011              RP-53        RP-111294      0161     \-                  Add Band XXII for LTE/UMTS 3500 (FDD)                                                                                                         10.2.0
  03/2012              RP-55        RP-120328      0168     \-                  Add Extending 850 MHz Upper Band (814 - 849 MHz) to TS25.307                                                                                  10.3.0
  06/2012              RP-56        RP-120816      0170     \-                  Add Extending 850 MHz Upper Band (814 - 849 MHz) to TS25.307                                                                                  11.0.0
  12/2012              RP-58        RP-121922      0193     \-                  Multiple frequency band indicators per cell                                                                                                   11.1.0
  03/2014              RP-63        RP-140336      0207     1                   Introducing \'General\' clause with note referring to notes in clause 4.4 in TS25.101 and TS25.102, editorial modifications to Scope clause   11.2.0
  09/2014              RP-65        \-             \-       \-                  Upgrade to the Release 12 - no technical change                                                                                               12.0.0
  12/2015              RP-70        \-             \-       \-                  Upgrade to the Release 13 - no technical change                                                                                               13.0.0
  03/2017              RP-75        \-             \-       \-                  Upgrade to Release 14 - no technical change                                                                                                   14.0.0
  06/2018              RP-80        \-             \-       \-                  Upgrade to Release 15 - no technical change                                                                                                   15.0.0
  2020-07              RP-88e       \-             \-       \-        \-        Upgrade to Rel-16 version without technical change                                                                                            **16.0.0**
  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- --------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------
