![](media/image1.png){width="7.0875in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-symbols-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[5](#abbreviations)

[6](#db-dc-hsdpa-configurations-independent-of-release)

[6](#void)

[6](#void-1)

[6](#void-2)

[6](#c-hsdpa-configurations-independent-of-release)

[6](#single-band-contiguous-configurations)

[6](#void-3)

[6](#void-4)

[6](#dual-band-configurations)

[6](#void-5)

[6](#void-6)

[6](#void-7)

[6](#void-8)

[6](#void-9)

[6](#c-hsdpa-configurations-independent-of-release-1)

[7](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations
4 DB-DC-HSDPA configurations independent of release 4.1 Void 4.2 Void
4.3 Void 5 4C-HSDPA configurations independent of release 5.1
Single-band contiguous configurations 5.1.1 Void 5.1.2 Void 5.2
Dual-band configurations 5.2.1 Void 5.2.2 Void 5.2.3 Void 5.2.4 Void
5.2.5 Void 6 8C-HSDPA configurations independent of release Annex A
(informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies requirements on UEs supporting a
DB-DC-HSDPA, 4C-HSDPA, and 8C-HSDPA configuration that is independent of
release. TSG-RAN has agreed that the standardisation of new
configurations may be independent of a release. However, in order to
implement a UE that conforms to a particular release but supports a
configuration that is specified in a later release, it is necessary to
specify some extra requirements.

For example, Band I-XI combination for DB-DC-HSDPA (referred to as
DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 4 in \[2\]) is contained in the Release 10
specifications. In order to implement a UE conforming to Release 9 but
supporting this configuration, it is necessary for the UE to
additionally conform to some parts of the Release 10 specifications,
such as the radio frequency and radio resource management requirements
for the configuration.

Similarly, 4C-HSDPA configuration I-3 is contained in the Release 11
specification \[3\]. In order to implement a UE conforming to Release
10, but supporting this configuration, it is necessary for the UE to
additionally conform to some parts of the Release 11 specifications.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 25.101 (Release 10): \"User Equipment (UE) radio
transmission and reception (FDD)\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 25.101 (Release 11): \"User Equipment (UE) radio
transmission and reception (FDD)\".

\[4\] Void

\[5\] Void

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term,
if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

DB-DC-HSDPA Dual Band Dual Cell HSDPA

4C-HSDPA Four-carrier HSDPA

8C-HSDPA Eight-carrier HSDPA

4 DB-DC-HSDPA configurations independent of release
===================================================

4.1 Void
--------

4.2 Void
--------

4.3 Void
--------

5 4C-HSDPA configurations independent of release
================================================

5.1 Single-band contiguous configurations
-----------------------------------------

### 5.1.1 Void

### 5.1.2 Void

5.2 Dual-band configurations
----------------------------

### 5.2.1 Void

### 5.2.2 Void

### 5.2.3 Void

### 5.2.4 Void

### 5.2.5 Void

6 8C-HSDPA configurations independent of release
================================================

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                              
  **Date**             **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                               **New version**
  2013-11                                                                       Skeleton report based on 25.317 contents                          1.0.0
  2013-12              RP-62        RP-131629                                   TS 25.327 approved by RAN \#62                                    9.0.0
                       RP-62        RP-131980      0002     1                   Introduction of TS 25.327                                         11.0.0
  2014-03              RP-63        \-             \-       \-                  Introduction of TS 25.327 REL-12                                  12.0.0
  2014-06              RP-64        RP-140872      0009     \-                  Introduction of the new band combinations related to Band XXXII   12.1.0
  2015-12              RP-70        \-             \-       \-                  Upgrade to the Release 13 - no technical change                   13.0.0
  2017-03              RP-75        \-             \-       \-                  Upgrade to Release 14 - no technical change                       14.0.0
  2018-06              RP-80                                                    Upgrade to Release 15 - no technical change                       15.0.0
  2020-07              RP-88e       \-             \-       \-        \-        Upgrade to Rel-16 version without technical change                **16.0.0**
  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
