![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[6](#abbreviations)

[6](#iu-layer-1)

[6](#introduction)

[6](#layer-1-description)

[6](#layer-1-synchronised)

[8](#ip-layer-1-unsynchronised)

[8](#requirements-from-higher-layer)

[8](#services-provided-by-layer-1)

[8](#atm-transport)

[8](#interface-to-management-plane)

[10](#annex-a-informative-change-history)1 Scope 2 References 3
Abbreviations 4 Iu Layer 1 4.1 Introduction 4.2 Layer 1 Description
4.2.1 Layer 1 Synchronised 4.2.2 \[IP -- Layer 1 Unsynchronised\] 4.3
Requirements from higher layer 4.4 Services Provided by Layer 1 4.4.1
ATM Transport 4.5 Interface to Management Plane Annex A (informative):
Change History

Foreword

This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the standards allowed to implement Layer
1 on the Iu interface.

The specification of transmission delay requirements and O&M
requirements are not in the scope of the present document.

In the following 'Layer 1' and 'Physical Layer' are assumed to be
synonymous.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

● References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

● For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

● For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] ITU-T Recommendation I.432.2 (1996-08): \"ISDN User-Network
interfaces, Layer 1 Recommendations, 155 520 kbit/s and 622 080 kbit/s
operation\".

\[2\] Void.

\[3\] ITU-T Recommendation G.703 (1998-10): \"Physical/electrical
characteristics of hierarchical digital interfaces\".

\[4\] ITU-T Recommendation G.704 (1998-10): \"Synchronous frame
structures used at 1544, 6312, 2048, 8448 and 44 736 kbit/s hierarchical
levels\".

\[5\] ITU-T Recommendation G.957 (1995-07): \"Optical interfaces for
equipments and systems relating to the synchronous digital hierarchy\".

\[6\] ITU-T Recommendation I.432.1 (1996-08): \"ISDN User-Network
interfaces, Layer 1 Recommendations, General characteristics\".

\[7\] ITU-T Recommendation G.823 (2000-03): \"The control of jitter and
wander within digital networks which are based on the 2048 kbit/s
hierarchy\".

\[8\] ITU-T Recommendation G.824 (2000-03): \"The control of jitter and
wander within digital networks which are based on the 1544 kbit/s
hierarchy\".

\[9\] ITU-T Recommendation G.825 (2001-08): \"The control of jitter and
wander within digital networks which are based on the synchronous
digital hierarchy (SDH)\".

\[10\] ITU-T Recommendation G.826 (1996-08): \"Error performance
parameters and objectives for international, constant bit rate digital
paths at or above the primary rate\".

\[11\] ITU-T Recommendation I.361 (1995-11): \"B-ISDN ATM layer
specification\".

\[12\] ATM Forum AF-PHY-0016.000 (1994-09): \"DS1 Physical Layer
Specification\".

\[13\] ATM Forum AF-PHY-0064.000 (1996-09): \"E1 Physical Layer
Interface Specification\".

\[14\] ATM Forum AF-PHY-0086.001 (1999-02): \"Inverse Multiplexing for
ATM (IMA) Specification Version 1.1\".

\[15\] ITU-T Recommendation G.751 (1988-11): \"Digital multiplex
equipments operating at the third order bit rate of 34 368 kbit/s and
the fourth order bit rate of 139 264 kbit/s and using positive
justification\".

\[16\] ITU-T Recommendation G.811 (1997-02): \"Timing Characteristics of
Primary Reference Clocks\".

\[17\] ITU-T Recommendation G.804 (1998-02): \"ATM cell mapping into
plesiochronous digital hierarchy (PDH)\".

\[18\] Standard ECMA-226: \"Private Integrated Services Network (PISN) -
Mapping Functions for the Employment of Dedicated Circuit Mode
Connections as Inter-PTNX Connections (MAPPING-CM-STATIC)\".

\[19\] ITU-T Recommendation I.431 (1988-11): \"Primary rate user-network
interface - Layer 1 specification\".

3 Abbreviations
===============

For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations
apply:

ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode

HEC Header Error Control

IMA Inverse Multiplexing on ATM

IP Internet Protocol

PDH Plesiochronous Digital Hierarchy

PMD Physical Media Dependent

PHY-SAP Physical Service Access Point

SDH Synchronous Digital Hierarchy

SDU Service Data Unit

SONET Synchronous Optical Networking

4 Iu Layer 1
============

4.1 Introduction
----------------

The main functions of Layer 1 are summarised in the following:

\- Interface to physical medium;

\- \[ATM-Cell delineation\];

\- Line clock extraction capability;

\- Layer 1 alarms extraction and generation;

\- In-sequence delivery;

\- Transmission quality control.

4.2 Layer 1 Description
-----------------------

### 4.2.1 Layer 1 Synchronised

When the Layer 1 Synchronised option is used (i.e. PDH/SDH/SONET links),
the following requirements shall be met:

Layer 1 reference configuration shall be according to ITU-T Rec. I.432.1
\[6\].

The physical layer is divided into:

\- Physical Media Dependent (PMD) sublayer;

\- Transmission Convergence (TC) sublayer defined according to ITU-T
Rec. I.432.1 \[6\].

The PMD shall comply with at least one of the following standards:

\- ETSI STM-4 (622 Mb/s) interface according to ITU-T Rec. I.432.2 \[1\]
with optical S-4.1 interface according to ITU-T Rec. G.957 \[5\].

\- SONET STS-12c (622 Mb/s) interface according to ANSI, T1.105-1995
with optical multimode.

\- SONET STS-3c (155 Mb/s) interface according to ANSI, T1.105-1995 with
optical multimode.

\- ETSI STM-1 (155 Mb/s) interface according to ITU-T Rec. I.432.2 \[1\]
with electrical interface (CMI) to ITU-T Rec. G.703 \[3\].

\- ETSI STM-1 (155 Mb/s) interface according to ITU-T Rec. I.432.2 \[1\]
with optical S-1.1 interface according to ITU-T Rec. G.957 \[5\].

\- ITU STS-1 (51 Mb/s) interface according to ANSI, T1.105-1995 with
electrical interface.

\- ITU STM-0 (51 Mb/s) interface according to ETSI/TTC with electrical
interface.

\- ITU STM-0 (51 Mb/s) interface according to ETSI/TTC with optical
S-1.1 interface according to ITU-T Rec. G.957 \[5\].

\- J2, 6.3 Mb/s interface according to Japanese standard JT-G.703 (ITU-T
Rec. G.703 \[3\]) and JT-G.704 (ITU-T Rec. G.704 \[4\]) (75 Ohm).

NOTE: J2 requires that the ATM cells be mapped into the physical layer
according to HEC based mapping in ITU-R Rec. G.804 \[17\].

\- E2, 8Mb/s according to ETSI/ITU G.703 (ITU-T Rec. G.703 \[3\]) and
G.704 (ITU-T Rec. G.704 \[4\]) (75 Ohm).

\- E3, 34 Mb/s interface according to ETSI/ITU G.751 (ITU-T Rec. G.751
\[15\]) (75 Ohm).

\- T3, 45 Mb/s interface according to ANSI/ITU G.703 (ITU-T Rec. G.703
\[3\]) and G.704 (ITU-T Rec. G.704 \[4\]) (75 Ohm).

\- E1, 2Mb/s interface balanced 120 Ohm symmetrical according to ETS 300
420 (Standard ECMA-226 \[18\]), ITU-T Rec. G.704 \[4\] and TBR 013
(ITU-T Rec. G.703 \[3\]), and AF-PHY-0064.000 \[13\].

\- E1, 2Mb/s according to ITU-T Rec. G.703 \[3\] and ITU-T Rec. G.704
\[4\] (75 Ohm), and AF-PHY-0064.000 \[13\].

\- J1, 1.5 Mb/s interface according to JT-I.431-a (ITU-T Rec. I.431
\[19\]) (100 Ohm).

\- J1, 1.5 Mb/s interface according to JT-G.703 (ITU-T Rec. G.703 \[3\])
and JT-G.704 (ITU-T Rec. G.704 \[4\]) (110 Ohm).

\- T1, 1.5 Mb/s interface according to AF-PHY-0016.000 \[12\] and ITU-T
Rec. G.703 \[3\] and ITU-T Rec. G.704 \[4\] (100 Ohm).

Services provided to the upper layer shall be independent from the used
underlying technology.

The support of intervening transport networks - like PDH or SDH
terrestrial links, Point-to-point or Point-to-Multipoint radio links -
shall not be prevented.

When using E1, T1, or J1, it shall be possible to use inverse
multiplexing of ATM (IMA) (ATM Forum AF-PHY-0086.001 \[14\]) within
suitable subsets of the physical ports on the respective Exchange
Termination (ET).

The jitter and wander performance requirements on the interface shall be
in accordance with network limits for output wander at traffic
interfaces of either Reference ITU-T Rec. G.823 \[7\], ITU-T Rec. G.824
\[8\] or network limits for the maximum output jitter and wander at any
hierarchical interface of Reference ITU-T Rec. G.825 \[9\], whichever is
applicable.

The synchronisation reference extracted from the Iu may be used as UTRAN
synchronisation reference. A general recommendation is to supply a
traceable synchronisation reference according to reference ITU-T Rec.
G.811 \[16\].

Transmission quality control shall be provided according to ITU-T Rec.
G.826 \[10\].

### 4.2.2 \[IP -- Layer 1 Unsynchronised\]

When Layer 1 unsynchronised option is used, the following requirements
shall be met:

The support of any suitable physical layer - like Ethernet L1 or other
suitable point-to-point or point-to-multipoint techniques - shall not be
prevented.

4.3 Requirements from higher layer
----------------------------------

No specific requirements beyond the ones listed in the introduction have
been identified.

4.4 Services Provided by Layer 1
--------------------------------

### 4.4.1 ATM Transport

The physical layer provides services to the upper layer via the Physical
Service Access Point (PHY-SAP) according to ITU-T I.361 \[11\], as
described in the following figure:

Figure 1: SAP between Physical Layer and ATM Layer

According to ITU-T Rec. I.361 \[11\], subclause 3.2, the following
primitives are provided over PHY-SAP:

\- PHY-DATA request (PHY-SDU);

\- PHY-DATA indication (PHY-SDU).

The parameter PHY-SDU contains one ATM cell as defined in ITU-T I.361
\[11\] received or to be transferred over the physical medium.

4.5 Interface to Management Plane
---------------------------------

The description of the interface towards Management Plane is out of
scope of this document, anyhow at least the following O&M functions
should be foreseen:

\- Performance Monitoring Functions;

\- Alarm Status Reporting Functions;

\- Synchronisation Source Management.

######## Annex A (informative): Change History

  ---------------- -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------- ---------
  **Date / TSG**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                                           **New**
  12/2008          \-             \-       \-        Creation of Rel-8 version based on v7.1.0                     8.0.0
  12/2009          \-             \-       \-        Creation of Rel-9 version based on v8.0.0                     9.0.0
  03/2011          SP-100629                         Clarification on the use of References (TS 21.801 CR\#0030)   9.0.1
  03/2011                                            Creation of Rel-10 version based on v9.0.1                    10.0.0
  06/2011          RP-110684      0019               Correction of references                                      10.1.0
  09/2012                                            Update to Rel-11 version (MCC)                                11.0.0
  09/2014                                            Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)                                12.0.0
  12/2015                                            Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)                                13.0.0
  ---------------- -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------- ---------

  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                            
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                **New version**
  2017-03              SA\#75                                                Promotion to Release 14 without technical change   14.0.0
  2018-06              SA\#80        \-         \-       \-        \-        Promotion to Release 15 without technical change   15.0.0
  2020-07              SA\#88-e      \-         \-       \-        \-        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)                     **16.0.0**
  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------------------------- -----------------
