![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="1.1083333333333334in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[5](#abbreviations)

[5](#description)

[5](#overview)

[6](#isim-java-card-architecture)

[6](#__RefHeading___Toc502362965)

[7](#annex-a-normative-java-card-isim-api)

[8](#annex-b-normative-java-card-isim-api-identifiers)

[9](#annex-c-normative-isim-api-package-version-management)

[10](#annex-d-normative-isim-api-jar-files)

[11](#annex-e-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations 4
Description 4.0 Overview 4.1 ISIM Java Card™ architecture 5 File Access
API Annex A (normative): Java Card™ ISIM API Annex B (normative): Java
Card™ ISIM API identifiers Annex C (normative): ISIM API package version
management Annex D (normative): ISIM API jar files Annex E
(informative): Change History

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document defines the ISIM Application Programming Interface
extending the \"UICC API for Java Card™\" \[2\].

This API allows to develop an application running together with a ISIM
application.

The present document includes information applicable to network
operators, service providers, server -,--ISIM -- and database
5anufactures.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

-   References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
    > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

-   For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

-   For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the
    > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document),
    > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version
    > of that document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] ETSI TS 101 220: \"Smart Cards; ETSI numbering system for
telecommunication application providers\".

\[2\] ETSI TS 102 241 V13.0.0: \"Smart Cards; UICC Application
Programming Interface (UICC API) for Java Card™\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 31.103: \"Characteristics of the IP Multimedia Services
Identity Module (ISIM) application\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
defined in ETSI TS 102 241 \[2\] apply.

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations defined in
ETSI TS 102 241 \[2\] apply.

4 Description
=============

4.0 Overview
------------

This API is an extension to the ETSI TS 102 241 \[2\] \"UICC API for
Java Card™\" and requires the implementation of this specification.

The classes and interfaces described in this specification inherit
functionality from the classes and interfaces specified in
ETSI TS 102 141\[2\] \"UICC API for Java Card™\".

4.1 ISIM Java Card™ architecture
--------------------------------

The overall architecture of the ISIM API is based on the \"UICC API for
Java Card™\" defined in ETSI TS 102 241\[2\].

5 File Access API
=================

The ISIM file access API consists of the package *uicc.isim.access*.
This package defines additional constants to those defined in the
*uicc.access* package from ETSI TS 102 241 \[2\]. The access to the file
system, defined in TS 31.103 \[3\] is the one specified in
ETSI TS 102 241 \[2\] via the UICC *FileView* Interface.

######## Annex A (normative): Java Card™ ISIM API

The attached files \"31133\_Annex\_A\_Java.zip\", and
\"31133\_Annex\_A\_HTML.zip\" contain source files and html
documentation for the Java Card™ ISIM API.

######## Annex B (normative): Java Card™ ISIM API identifiers

The attached file \"31133\_Annex\_B\_Export\_files.zip\" contains the
export files for the uicc.isim.access package.

######## Annex C (normative): ISIM API package version management

The following table describes the relationship between each TS 31.133
specification version and its packages AID and Major, Minor versions
defined in the export files.

  ----------- ------------------------------------------------- --------------
  TS 31.133   uicc.isim.access package                          
              AID                                               Major, Minor
              A0 00 00 00 87 10 05 FF FF FF FF 89 14 10 00 00   1.1
  ----------- ------------------------------------------------- --------------

The package AID coding is defined in ETSI TS 101 220 \[1\]. The ISIM API
packages AID are not modified by changes to Major or Minor Version.

The Major Version shall be incremented if a change to the specification
introduces byte code incompatibility with the previous version.

The Minor Version shall be incremented if a change to the specification
does not introduce byte code incompatibility with the previous version.

The package *uicc.isim.access* contains only constants, therefore it may
not be loaded on the UICC.

######## Annex D (normative): ISIM API jar files

The attached file \"31133\_Annex\_D.jar\" contains class files for the
Java Card™ ISIM API.

######## Annex E (informative): Change History

  ------------------------- ------------------------------------- ------------------------- --------------- ----- ------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------
  TSG / Date                TSG doc                               WG doc                    CR              Rev   Subject/Comment                                                           New
  2005-08                                                                                                         Initial presentation during CT6\#36 Plenary                               0.1.0
  2005-08                                                                                                         Presented during CT6\#36 Plenary with editorial changes                   0.2.0
  2005-08                                                                                                         Agreed in CT6\#36 Plenary to send for information to CT plenary           0.2.1
  2006-05                   CP-060246 (not presented at CT\#32)                                                   Agreed in CT6\#39 Plenary to send for information to CT plenary           1.0.0
  2006-11                                                                                                         Presented during CT6\#41 for approval                                     2.0.0
  2006-11                                                                                                         Presented during CT6\#41 for approval                                     2.1.0
  2006-11                                                                                                         Agreed during CT6\#41 to send for approval to CT                          2.1.1
  2006-12                   CP-060703                                                                             Approved at CT\#34                                                        7.0.0
  2007-06                   CP-070303                             C6-070262                 0001            \-    Correction of the reference to ETSI TS 102 241                            7.1.0
  CT-38                     CP-070845                             C6-070565                 0002            1     Introduction of a new constant value for a file in the ISIM application   7.2.0
                                                                                                                  \[2008-08\] Attachments for annexes A and B supplied                      7.2.1
                                                                                                                  \[2008-10\] History box previous entry supplied (!)                       7.2.2
  \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--   \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--               \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--   \-\-\-\-\-\--         Upgrade to copyright, keywords and logo for LTE                           8.0.0
  CT-46                     CP-091011                             C6-090497                 0004            \-    References upgrade                                                        8.1.0
  CT-46                     \-                                    \-                        \-              \-    Upgrade of the specification to Rel-9                                     9.0.0
  CT-50                     CP-100836                             C6-100602                 0005            1     Update reference to TS 102 241 v9.0.0 reference                           9.1.0
  CT-51                     CP-110234                             C6-110067                 0008            1     uicc.isim.access package version update                                   9.2.0
  SP-51                                                                                                           Automatic upgrade from previous version 9.2.0                             10.0.0
  SP-57                                                                                                           Automatic upgrade to Rel-11                                               11.0.0
  SP-65                                                                                                           Automatic upgrade to Rel-12                                               12.0.0
  SP-70                                                                                                           Automatic upgrade to Rel-13                                               13.0.0
  SA-75                     \-                                    \-                        \-                    Update to Rel-14 version (MCC)                                            14.0.0
  CT-78                     CP-173150                             C6-170659                 0009            \-    Update of reference to ETSI TS 102 241                                    14.1.0
                                                                                                                  Missing attachments                                                       14.1.1
  SA80                                                                                                            Automatic upgrade to Rel-15                                               15.0.0
  2020-07                   \-                                    \-                        \-              \-    Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)                                            **16.0.0**
  ------------------------- ------------------------------------- ------------------------- --------------- ----- ------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------
