![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="1.1083333333333334in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[6](#definitions-symbols-and-abbreviations)

[6](#definitions)

[6](#symbols)

[6](#abbreviations)

[6](#contact-manager-internal-interface-characteristics)

[6](#reference-model)

[7](#data-model)

[8](#events-registration-and-deregistration)

[8](#overview)

[8](#definition-of-events)

[9](#services-invocation)

[9](#general)

[9](#services-invocation-api-description)

[9](#view-interfaces)

[10](#lists-access-interfaces)

[11](#items-update-interfaces)

[11](#access-control)

[12](#api-classes-and-interfaces-detailed-description)

[13](#annex-a-normative-java-cardtm-platform-contact-manager-api)

[14](#annex-b-normative-java-cardtm-platform-contact-manager-api-identifiers)

[15](#annex-c-normative-java-cardtm-platform-contact-manager-api-package-version-management)

[16](#annex-d-informative-example-of-java-cardtm-platform-contact-manager-api-use)

[17](#annex-e-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Symbols 3.3
Abbreviations 4 Contact manager internal interface characteristics 4.1
Reference model 4.2 Data model 4.3 Events registration and
deregistration 4.3.1 Overview 4.3.2 Definition of events 4.4 Services
invocation 4.4.1 General 4.4.2 Services invocation API description
4.4.2.1 View interfaces 4.4.2.2 Lists access interfaces 4.4.2.3 Items
update interfaces 4.4.2.4 Access control 4.4.3 API classes and
interfaces detailed description Annex A (normative): Java Card^TM^
platform Contact Manager API Annex B (normative): Java Card^TM^ platform
Contact Manager API identifiers Annex C (normative): Java Card^TM^
platform Contact Manager API package version management Annex D
(informative): Example of Java Card^TM^ platform Contact Manager API use
Annex E (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document defines the internal interface characteristics of
the Contact Manager for 3GPP UICC applications \[2\].

The internal interface between the Contact Manager Server application on
the UICC and the Contact Manager Client application on the UICC enables
Java Card™ platform based applets, defined in \[3\], \[4\] and \[5\], to
invoke and register to the Contact Manager Server services. In
particular, the Contact Manager Java Card™ based API provides methods
to:

\- Read/Update/Create/Delete contact(s) in the Contact Manager Server;

\- Manage group of contacts in the Contact Manager Server;

\- Search for a contact in the Contact Manager Server storage;

\- manage the contacts structure;

\- Register/Un-register the application to pre-defined events (e.g.
application to be notified when contacts are modified in the Contact
Manager Server).

This API allows to develop an application running together with a
Contact Manager \[2\].

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

-   References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
    > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

-   For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

-   For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the
    > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document),
    > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version
    > of that document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 31.220: \"Characteristics of the Contact Manager for 3GPP
UICC applications\".

\[3\] Sun Microsystems \"Application Programming Interface, Java Card™
Platform, 3.0.1 Classic Edition\".

\[4\] Sun Microsystems \"Runtime Environment Specification, Java Card™
Platform, 3.0.1 Classic Edition\".

\[5\] Sun Microsystems \"Virtual Machine Specification Java Card™
Platform, 3.0.1 Classic Edition\".

Note: SUN Java Card™ Specifications can be downloaded at
<http://java.sun.com/products/javacard>

\[6\] 3GPP TS 31.130: \"(U)SIM API for Java™ Card\".

\[7\] ETSI TS 101 220: \"Smart cards; ETSI numbering system for
telecommunication application providers\".

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in TR 21.905 \[1\] and TS 31.130 \[6\] apply. A term defined in TS
31.130 \[6\] takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if
any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

3.2 Symbols
-----------

For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:

\|\| Concatenation

3.3 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

API Application Programming Interface

4 Contact manager internal interface characteristics
====================================================

4.1 Reference model
-------------------

The present section describes an API and a Contact Manager Runtime
Environment that enables Java Card™ platform based applets, defined in
\[3\], \[4\] and \[5\], to invoke and register to the Contact Manager
Server services (e.g. retrieve/modify contact information). The Contact
Manager Runtime Environment API is further described in annex A.

Figure 1: Internal interface reference model

**Contact Manager Runtime Environment:** An Extension to the Java Card™
platform described in \[3\]\[4\]\[5\] and the (U)SAT Runtime Environment
described in TS 31.130 \[6\] to facilitate the communications between
Applets and the Contact Manager Server.

**Applet:** these derive from *javacard.framework.Applet* and provide
the entry points: *process, select, deselect, install* as defined in the
\"Runtime Environment Specification, Java Card™ Platform, 3.0.1 Classic
Edition\" \[4\].

**Event Listener List of the Contact Manager**: this is handling all the
registration information of the event listener of the Contact Manager
Server services. It is provided as a JCRE entry point object defined in
\[5\]. The registry is part of the Contact Manager Runtime Environment.

**Contact Manager API**: consists of the package *uicc.contactmanager*,
provides the methods to register and unregister, to the Contact Manager
events. It also provides methods to access the Contact Manager Server
data. This API is an extension to the \"(U)SAT API\" defined in TS 31
130 \[6\].

**Contact Manager Server:** application on the UICC that enables Java
Card™ platform based applets, defined in \[3\], \[4\] and \[5\], to
invoke and register to its services. The invocation of the Contact
Manager Server services is done through methods corresponding to the
Contact Manager Runtime Environment interface.

4.2 Data model
--------------

The Contact Manager API gives the user application a view of the data
stored by the Contact Manager Server. This view follows the data model
below:

Figure 1: data model

The contact manager is composed of a collection of contacts. Each
contact belongs to a unique contact manager.

The contact manager is also composed of a collection of field
descriptors. Each field descriptor defines the properties of a field
that all contacts belonging to the contact manager shall have. A contact
field is described by:

\- its type (e.g. Name, phone number, postal address,..) and

\- its attributes (e.g. voice phone number).

Some fields such as a name or a postal address may be composed of
several sub-fields. Each field descriptor belongs to a unique contact
manager.

A contact is composed of a collection of fields. Each field belongs to a
unique contact, and defines the value assigned to this contact for a
unique field descriptor.

The contact manager is also composed of a collection of groups. Each
group belongs to a unique contact manager, and is an aggregation of
contacts that belong to the same contact manager. Each contact may
belong to no group, one group, or multiple groups.

Each contact is identified by an identifier, which is unique among all
contacts in the Contact Manager database.

Each field descriptor is identified by an identifier, which is unique
among all field descriptors in the Contact Manager database.

Each group is identified by an identifier, which is unique among all
groups in the Contact Manager database.

The contact identifiers, field descriptor identifiers and group
identifiers are three distinct spaces. For example, a contact may have
the same identifier as a group.

The following figure depicts an example of a Contact Manager Server data
store.

Figure 2: Example of a Contact Manager Server data store

4.3 Events registration and deregistration
------------------------------------------

### 4.3.1 Overview

Registration to and Deregistration from the Contact Manager Server is
done through the register and unregister methods of the Contact Manager
Runtime Environment interface.

To be notified, the client shall implement a *ContactEventListener
interface* and register to the appropriate events. Then the Contact
Manager Server will call the following methods of all registered clients
when the corresponding event occurs:

\- *ContactEventListener.contactModified (int event, int
contactIdentifier)* each time a contact is modified.

\- *ContactEventListener.groupModified (int event, int groupIdentifier,
int contactIdentifier)* each time a group is modified.

\- ContactEventListener.fieldDescriptorModified (int event, int
fieldDescriptorIdentifier) each time a field descriptor is modified.

### 4.3.2 Definition of events

The following events can notify an applet:

Table 1: Contact Manager events list

  -------------------------------------- --
  Event Name                             
  *EVENT\_CONTACT\_ADDED*                
  *EVENT\_CONTACT\_MODIFIED*             
  *EVENT\_CONTACT\_REMOVED*              
  *EVENT\_FIELD\_DESCRIPTOR\_ADDED*      
  *EVENT\_FIELD\_DESCRIPTOR\_MODIFIED*   
  *EVENT\_FIELD\_DESCRIPTOR\_REMOVED*    
  *EVENT\_GROUP\_ADDED*                  
  *EVENT\_GROUP\_CONTACT\_ADDED*         
  *EVENT\_GROUP\_CONTACT\_REMOVED*       
  *EVENT\_GROUP\_REMOVED*                
  -------------------------------------- --

4.4 Services invocation
-----------------------

### 4.4.1 General 

Before contacts can be created and used, the Contact Manager Server
shall first be configured with the contacts structure (i.e. the field
descriptors).

The Contact Manager internal interface provides services to access and
manage contacts, groups of contacts, list of contacts, list of groups,
and contacts structure.

In order to access the Contact Manager Server, an application shall use
the factory methods in the *ContactManager* class. This class, which is
the primary entry point to the API, provides the applications with
factory methods to create all objects needed to access the Contact
Manager Server.

> Note: in its current form, it allows only one instance of the contact
> manager data model. However, all interfaces in this API are designed
> such that multiple contact manager information bases could co-exist.

With the exception of the *ContactManager* factory class and the
*ContactManagerException* class, all objects defined in the data model
are accessed using interfaces.

### 4.4.2 Services invocation API description

The invocation of the Contact Manager Server services is done through
methods corresponding to the Contact Manager Server Runtime Environment
interface.

#### 4.4.2.1 View interfaces

All objects in the Contact Manager Server's data model are accessed
using the View interfaces instances:

\- The *FieldDescriptorsListView* interface shall be used by client
applications to access the field descriptors list.

\- The *FieldDescriptorView* interface shall be used by client
applications to access the field descriptors.

\- The *ContactsListView* interface shall be used by client applications
to access the contacts list.

\- The *GroupsListView* interface shall be used by client applications
to access the groups list.

\- The *ContactView* interface shall be used by client applications to
access the contacts.

\- The *FieldView* interface shall be used by client applications to
access the fields.

Client applications should obtain instances of these interfaces at
installation time.

The instances of *FieldDescriptorsListView*, *ContactsListView* and
*GroupsListView* each gives access to a single collection during their
whole lifetime, respectively the unique list of all field descriptors,
the unique list of all contacts, and the unique list of all groups.

Conversely, each instance of *FieldDescriptorView*, *ContactView* and
*FieldView* may, at different times, give successive access to distinct
objects of the Contact Manager Server's database. At some times, they
may give access to none.

At any time, each of these latter views instances are either in
DESELECTED or in SELECTED state:

\- A view in DESELECTED state does not represent any existing object in
the Contact Manager Server's data model.

\- A view in SELECTED state represents an existing object in the Contact
Manager Server's data model. It can be used to access this selected
object.

#### 4.4.2.2 Lists access interfaces

The interfaces *ContactsListView*, *GroupsListView*,
*FieldDescriptorsListView*, *ContactView* and *GroupView* provide access
to collections:

*- ContactsListView* provides access to a collection of contacts;

*- GroupsListView* provides access to a collection of Groups;

*- FieldDescriptorsListView* provides access to a collection of field
descriptors;

*- ContactView* provides access to a collection of fields;

*- GroupView* provides access to a collection of contacts.

\

Figure 1: interfaces

These interfaces provide methods to enumerate items in these
collections, as well as methods to add and remove items.

#### 4.4.2.3 Items update interfaces

The groups, contacts, fields and field descriptors can be accessed using
the interfaces *GroupView*, *ContactView*, *FieldView* and
*FieldDescriptorView*, respectively.

These interfaces shall be used to update the objects they represent.

The life cycle of the *ContactView*, *FieldView*, *GroupView* and
*FieldDescriptorView* is defined by the following state diagram:

Figure 1: state diagram

\- In the DESELECTED state, the instance does not represent any existing
group, contact, field or field descriptor in the contact manager. It can
be used to store values for a new object to be created subsequently.

\- In the SELECTED state, the instance represents an group, contact,
field or field descriptor in the contact manager.

The select operation occurs when the following methods are invoked:

+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| Interface             | select occurs when the following methods    |
|                       | are invoked                                 |
+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| Group*View*           | *GroupsListView.selectGroup()*              |
|                       |                                             |
|                       | *GroupsListView.selectNextGroup()*          |
|                       |                                             |
|                       | *GroupsListView.addGroup()*                 |
+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| Contact*View*         | *ContactsListView.selectContact()*          |
|                       |                                             |
|                       | *ContactsListView.selectNextContact()*      |
|                       |                                             |
|                       | *ContactsListView.addContact()*             |
|                       |                                             |
|                       | *GroupView.selectContact()*                 |
|                       |                                             |
|                       | *GroupView.selectNextContact()*             |
+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| Field*View*           | *ContactView.selectField()*                 |
|                       |                                             |
|                       | *ContactView.selectNextField()*             |
+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| FieldDescriptor*View* | *FieldD                                     |
|                       | escriptorsListView.selectFieldDescriptor()* |
|                       |                                             |
|                       | *FieldDescr                                 |
|                       | iptorsListView.selectNextFieldDescriptor()* |
|                       |                                             |
|                       | *Fie                                        |
|                       | ldDescriptorsListView.addFieldDescriptor()* |
+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+

The deselect operation occurs when the following events occur:

\- UICC RESET

*- deselect()* method of the appropriate View is invoked.

#### 4.4.2.4 Access control

The API shall only accept requests from trusted applets, defined as
follows:

\- Security Domains of UICC applications defined in chapter 4.3 of \[2\]
are trusted by the API.

\- Any applet of any trusted Security Domain is trusted by the API.

### 4.4.3 API classes and interfaces detailed description

Annex A provides the detailed description of the classes and interfaces
that constitute the Services Invocation API.

######## Annex A (normative): Java Card^TM^ platform Contact Manager API

The attached files \"31221\_Annex\_A\_Java.zip\", and
\"31221\_Annex\_A\_HTML.zip\" contains source files and html
documentation for the Java Card™ Contact Manager API.

######## Annex B (normative): Java Card^TM^ platform Contact Manager API identifiers

The attached file \"31221\_Annex\_B\_Export\_files.zip\" contains the
export files for the uicc.contactmanager.\* package.

######## Annex C (normative): Java Card^TM^ platform Contact Manager API package version management

The following table describes the relationship between each TS 31.221
specification version and its packages AID and Major, Minor versions
defined in the export files.

Table 1

+-----------+----------------------------------------+--------+
| TS 31.221 | uicc. contactmanager package           |        |
+-----------+----------------------------------------+--------+
|           | AID                                    | Major, |
|           |                                        |        |
|           |                                        | Minor  |
+-----------+----------------------------------------+--------+
|           | A0 00 00 00 87 10 07 FF FF FF FF 89 14 | 2.0    |
|           |                                        |        |
|           | 10 00 00                               |        |
+-----------+----------------------------------------+--------+

The package AID coding is defined in ETSI TS 101 220 \[7\]. The Contact
Manager API packages\' AID are not modified by changes to major or minor
version.

The major version shall be incremented if a change to the specification
introduces byte code incompatibility with the previous version.

The minor version shall be incremented if a change to the specification
does not introduce byte code incompatibility with the previous version.

######## Annex D (informative): Example of Java Card^TM^ platform Contact Manager API use

The attached file \"31221\_Annex\_D\_Example.zip\" contains an example
of use of the Java^TM^ Card Contact Manager API.

######## Annex E (informative): Change history

  ---------- ------------------- -------------- -------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------- ---------
  **Date**   **TSG \#**          **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                                         **New**
  2008-12    CT \#42             CP-080900                         Approval of the specification                               8.0.0
  2009-01    \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--                                     Re-publication with attached Java™ annexes                  8.0.1
  2009-03    CT \#43             CP-090195      0001               Correction of ContactEventListener interface                8.1.0
  2009-12    CT \#46                                               Upgrade to Rel-9 with no changes (MCC)                      9.0.0
  2010-12    CT \#50             CP-100836      0003     1         Update reference to \"Java Card 3.0.1 Classic\" reference   9.1.0
  2011-04    CT \#51                                               Upgrade to Rel-10 with no changes (MCC)                     10.0.0
  2012-09    CT \#52                                               Upgrade to Rel-11 with no changes (MCC)                     11.0.0
  2014-10    SP\#65                                                Upgrade to Rel-12 with no changes (MCC)                     12.0.0
  2015-12    SP\#70                                                Upgrade to Rel-13 with no changes (MCC)                     13.0.0
  2017-03    SA-75               \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-14 version (MCC)                              14.0.0
  2018-07    SA-80               \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)                              15.0.0
  2020-07    CT\#88e             \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)                              16.0.0
  ---------- ------------------- -------------- -------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------- ---------
