![](media/image1.wmf){width="7.0875in" height="0.9722222222222222in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[5](#abbreviations)

[5](#void)

[6](#darp-phase-ii-ms-independent-of-release)

[6](#rf-requirements)

[6](#signalling-requirements)

[7](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Abbreviations 4 Void 5 DARP Phase II
MS Independent of Release 5.1 RF Requirements 5.2 Signalling
Requirements Annex A (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies requirements on MSs supporting Downlink
Advanced Receiver Performance (DARP) that are independent of release.
TSG GERAN has agreed that the standardisation of DARP be independent of
a release. However, in order to implement an MS that conforms to a
particular release but supports DARP, which is specified in a later
release, it is necessary to specify some extra requirements.

DARP - phase II is contained in the Release 7 specifications. In order
to implement an MS conforming to Release 5 but supporting DARP -- phase
II, it is necessary for the MS to additionally conform to some parts of
the Release 7 specifications, such as the radio frequency requirements
for DARP and some signalling extensions relating to the MS Classmark and
radio access capabilities.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] (void)

\[2\] (void)

\[3\] 3GPP TS 45.005: \"Radio transmission and reception (Release 7)\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification;
Core Network protocols; Stage 3 (Release 7)\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

Unless listed below, all definitions and abbreviations used in the
present document are listed in documents referenced in clause 2.

3.1 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations
apply:

DARP Downlink Advanced Receiver Performance

SAIC Single Antenna Interference Cancellation, also known as DARP -
phase I

MSRD Mobile Station Receive Diversity, also known as DARP - phase II

4 Void
======

5 DARP Phase II MS Independent of Release
=========================================

MSs that conform to Release 5 and support DARP - phase II shall support
the following requirements in Release 7.

5.1 RF Requirements
-------------------

The MS shall comply with the RF requirements for DARP - phase II
specified in \[3\]. These requirements are:

Section 6.2: Reference sensitivity level.

Section 6.3: Reference interference level.

5.2 Signalling Requirements
---------------------------

The MS shall support the following information elements specified in
\[4\]:

Section 10.5.1.7 Mobile Station Classmark 3, with the following
exceptions:

\- Fields T-GSM 400 Bands Supported / T-GSM 400 Associated Radio
Capability, T-GSM 900 Associated Radio Capability, DTM GPRS High Multi
Slot Class / Offset required / DTM EGPRS High Multi Slot Class, GSM 710
Associated Radio Capability, T-GSM 810 Associated Radio Capability, and
Multislot Capability Reduction for Downlink Dual Carrier shall be
indicated as not present since they are not defined in Release 5. This
is done by setting the related indication bit to \'0\'.

\- Parameter DTM Enhancement Capability, Repeated ACCH Capability and
Ciphering Mode Setting Capability shall be indicated as not supported
since it is not defined in Release 5. This is done by setting the bit
value \'0\' for this parameter.

Section 10.5.5.12a MS Radio Access Capability, with the following
exceptions:

\- Fields DTM GPRS High Multi Slot Class / DTM EGPRS High Multi Slot
Class, Multislot Capability Reduction for Downlink Dual Carrier, and
Downlink Dual Carrier for DTM Capability shall be indicated as not
present since they are not defined in Release 5. This is done by setting
the related indication bit to \'0\'.

\- Parameters Multiple TBF Capability, Extended RLC/MAC Control Message
Segmentation Capability, DTM Enhancements Capability, PS Handover
Capability, and DTM Handover Capability shall be indicated as not
supported since they are not defined in Release 5. This is done by
setting the bit value \'0\' for each of these parameters.

\- In addition, for Access Technology Type, the values \'1001\' through
to \'1101\' shall not be used since GSM T 380, GSM T 410, GSM T 900, GSM
710 and GSM T 810 are not supported in Release 5.

NOTE: The lack of one or more of the fields following the Downlink
Advanced Receiver Performance field in Mobile Station Classmark 3 IE or
MS Radio Access Capability IE should not be considered as an error by
the network. In this case the meaning \"not supported\" or \"not
present\" should be assumed as indicated above.

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ---------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                          
  **Date**             **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                                           **Old**   **New**
  2004-11              22           GP-042854                         Version for Release 5                                                   5.0.0
  2006-01              28           GP-060330      0004     2         Release independent DARP Implementation guidelines update     5.0.0     5.1.0
  2007-05              34           GP-071051      0005     1         Release independent DARP Implementation guidelines update     5.1.0     5.2.0
  2007-05              34           GP-07105       *0006*   *1*       *Release independent DARP Implementation guidelines update*   *5.2.0*   *6.1.0*
  2007-08              35                                             Version for Release 7                                         6.1.0     7.0.0
  2008-12              *40*                                           Version for Release 8                                         7.0.0     8.0.0
  2009-12              44                                             Version for Release 9                                         8.0.0     9.0.0
  2011-03              49                                             Version for Release 10                                        9.0.0     10.0.0
  2012-09              55                                             Version for Release 11                                        10.0.0    11.0.0
  2014-09              63                                             Version for Release 12 (frozen at SP-65)                      11.0.0    12.0.0
  2015-12              68                                             Version for Release 13 (frozen at SP-70)                      12.0.0    13.0.0
  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ---------

  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- ---------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                              
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                  **New version**
  2017-03              RP-75         \-         \-       \-        \-        Version for Release 14 (frozen at TSG-75)            14.0.0
  2018-06              RP-80         \-         \-       \-        \-        Version for Release 15 (frozen at TSG-80)            15.0.0
  2020-07              RP-88e        \-         \-       \-        \-        Upgrade to Rel-16 version without technical change   **16.0.0**
  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- ---------------------------------------------------- -----------------
