![](media/image1.wmf){width="7.0875in" height="0.975in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[5](#foreword)

[6](#scope)

[6](#references)

[7](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[7](#definitions)

[7](#abbreviations)

[7](#radio-transmission-and-reception)

[7](#frequency-band-and-channels-arrangements)

[8](#reference-configuration)

[8](#transmitter-characteristics)

[8](#output-power)

[9](#output-rf-spectrum)

[9](#spectrum-due-to-the-modulation-and-wide-band-noise)

[10](#spectrum-due-to-switching-transient)

[11](#spurious-emission)

[11](#principle-of-the-specification)

[11](#requirements)

[12](#radio-frequency-tolerance)

[12](#output-level-dynamic-operation)

[12](#phase-accuracy)

[12](#intermodulation-attenuation)

[12](#receiver-characteristics)

[13](#blocking-characteristics)

[14](#am-suppression-characteristics)

[14](#intermodulation-characteristics)

[15](#transmitter-receiver-performance)

[15](#nominal-error-rate)

[15](#reference-sensitivity-level)

[16](#reference-interference-level)

[16](#erroneous-frame-indication-performance)

[17](#access-performance-at-high-input-levels)

[17](#frequency-hopping-performance-under-interference-conditions)

[21](#radio-subsystem-frequency-control)

[21](#void)

[21](#general)

[21](#adaptive-frequency-allocation-afa)

[21](#tfh-carrier-list-selection)

[21](#acceptance-procedure)

[21](#basic-threshold)

[22](#sliding-window-technique)

[22](#fixed-window-technique)

[22](#list-extension-check)

[22](#parameters)

[22](#afa-and-tfh-selection-performance-requirements)

[23](#cts-beacon-channel-carrier-selection)

[23](#timeslot-assignment-for-dedicated-connection)

[23](#frequency-control-parameters)

[25](#annex-a-informative-spectrum-characteristics-spectrum-due-to-the-modulation)

[27](#annex-b-normative-transmitted-power-level-versus-time)

[28](#annex-c-normative-environmental-conditions)

[28](#c.1-general)

[28](#c.2-temperature)

[28](#c.3-voltage)

[29](#annex-d-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations 4 Radio
transmission and reception 4.1 Frequency band and channels arrangements
4.2 Reference configuration 4.3 Transmitter characteristics 4.3.1 Output
power 4.3.2 Output RF spectrum 4.3.2.1 Spectrum due to the modulation
and wide band noise 4.3.2.2 Spectrum due to switching transient 4.3.3
Spurious emission 4.3.3.1 Principle of the specification 4.3.3.2
Requirements 4.3.4 Radio frequency tolerance 4.3.5 Output level dynamic
operation 4.3.6 Phase accuracy 4.3.7 Intermodulation attenuation 4.4
Receiver characteristics 4.4.1 Blocking characteristics 4.4.2 AM
suppression characteristics 4.4.3 Intermodulation characteristics 4.5
Transmitter / receiver performance 4.5.1 Nominal error rate 4.5.2
Reference sensitivity level 4.5.3 Reference interference level 4.5.4
Erroneous frame indication performance 4.5.5 Access performance at high
input levels 4.5.6 Frequency hopping performance under interference
conditions 5 Radio subsystem frequency control 5.1 Void 5.2 General 5.3
Adaptive Frequency Allocation (AFA) 5.4 TFH carrier list selection 5.4.1
Acceptance procedure 5.4.1.1 Basic threshold 5.4.1.2 Sliding window
technique 5.4.1.3 Fixed window technique 5.4.1.4 List extension check
5.4.2 Parameters 5.4.3 AFA and TFH selection performance requirements
5.5 CTS Beacon channel carrier selection 5.6 Timeslot assignment for
dedicated connection 5.7 Frequency control parameters Annex A
(informative): Spectrum characteristics (spectrum due to the modulation)
Annex B (normative): Transmitted power level versus time Annex C
(normative): Environmental conditions C.1 General C.2 Temperature C.3
Voltage Annex D (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the requirements for the CTS-Fixed Part
(CTS-FP) transceiver of the digital mobile cellular and personal
communication systems operating in the 900 MHz (P-GSM and E-GSM) and
1 800 MHz band (GSM 900 and DCS 1 800), and specifies the Radio
subsystem frequency control implemented in the CTS-Fixed Part.

Unless otherwise stated, the requirements defined in the present
document apply to the full range of environmental conditions specified
for the CTS-FP equipment (see annex C).

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); Abbreviations and acronyms\".

\[2\] GSM 03.22: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); Functions related to Mobile Station (MS) in idle mode and
group receive mode\".

\[3\] GSM 03.52 : \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase
2+); GSM Cordless Telephony System (CTS); Lower layers of the CTS radio
interface; Stage 2\".

\[4\] GSM 04.56 : \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase
2+); GSM Cordless Telephony System (CTS); CTS radio interface layer 3
specification\".

\[5\] GSM 05.01: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); Physical layer on the radio path General description\".

\[6\] GSM 05.02: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); Multiplexing and multiple access on the radio path\".

\[7\] GSM 05.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); Modulation\".

\[8\] GSM 05.05: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); Radio transmission and reception\".

\[9\] GSM 05.08: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); Radio subsystem link control\".

\[10\] GSM 05.10: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); Radio subsystem synchronization\".

\[11\] GSM 11.56: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system
(Phase 2+); CTS-Fixed Part conformance specification\".

\[12\] GSM 03.56: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase
2+); GSM Cordless Telephony System (CTS); CTS Architecture Description;
Stage 2\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and
definitions apply:

**CTS Mobile Station:** GSM-MS supporting CTS.

**CTS Fixed Part:** CTS-FP is a device which acts as a link between the
CTS-MS and the fixed network.

**GSM-CTS:** Cordless Telephony System based on GSM.

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in GSM 01.04. In
addition, the following abbreviations are used:

AFA Adaptive Frequency Allocation

CTS Cordless Telephony System

CTS-FP CTS-Fixed Part

CTS-MS CTS-Mobile Station

GFL Generic Frequency List

TFH Total Frequency Hopping

4 Radio transmission and reception
==================================

4.1 Frequency band and channels arrangements
--------------------------------------------

i\) Standard or primary GSM 900 Band, P‑GSM:

\- for Standard GSM 900 band, the CTS-FP is required to operate in the
following frequency band:

\- 890 MHz to 915 MHz: CTS-FP receive;

\- 935 MHz to 960 MHz: CTS-FP transmit.

ii\) Extended GSM 900 Band, E‑GSM (includes Standard GSM 900 band):

\- for Extended GSM 900 band, the CTS-FP is required to operate in the
following frequency band:

\- 880 MHz to 915 MHz: CTS-FP receive;

\- 925 MHz to 960 MHz: CTS-FP transmit.

iii\) DCS 1 800 Band:

\- for DCS 1 800 band, the CTS-FP is required to operate in the
following band:

\- 1 710 MHz to 1 785 MHz: CTS-FP receive;

\- 1 805 MHz to 1 880 MHz: CTS-FP transmit.

The carrier spacing is 200 kHz.

The carrier frequency is designated by the absolute radio frequency
channel number (ARFCN) as specified in GSM 05.05 clause 2.

4.2 Reference configuration
---------------------------

The reference configuration for the CTS-FP radio subsystem is described
in GSM 05.01.

4.3 Transmitter characteristics
-------------------------------

Throughout this clause, unless otherwise stated, requirements are given
in terms of power levels at the antenna connector of the equipment. If
an active device is added to the CTS-FP antenna connector, the
requirements of this clause shall also be met at the output of this
active device. For equipment with integral antenna only, a reference
antenna with 0 dBi gain shall be assumed.

The term output power refers to the measure of the power when averaged
over the useful part of the burst (see annex B).

The term peak hold refers to a measurement where the maximum is taken
over a sufficient time that the level would not significantly increase
if the holding time were longer.

### 4.3.1 Output power

The CTS-FP maximum output power and lowest nominal output power shall
be, as defined in the following table.

  ---------------------------------- --------- ----------- ---------------- -----------
                                     GSM 900   DCS 1 800   Tolerance (dB)   
                                                           for conditions   
                                                           normal           extreme
  **Maximum Nominal output power**   11 dBm    12 dBm      +0/-2            +0,5/-2,5
  **Lowest Nominal output power**    -9 dBm    -8 dBm      ±4               ±5
  ---------------------------------- --------- ----------- ---------------- -----------

The different power control levels needed to support downlink adaptive
RF power control (seeGSM 05.08) shall have the nominal output power as
defined in the table below, starting from the power control level for
the lowest nominal output power up to the power control level for the
maximum nominal output power as defined in the table above.

  --------------------- ---------------------------- ------------------------------- -------------
  GSM 900                                                                            
  Power control level   Nominal Output power (dBm)   Tolerance (dB) for conditions   
                                                     **normal**                      **extreme**
                                                                                     
  1                     11                           +0/-2                           +0,5/-2,5
  2                     9                            ±2                              ±3
  3                     7                            ±3                              ±4
  4                     5                            ±3                              ±4
  5                     3                            ±3                              ±4
  6                     1                            ±3                              ±4
  7                     -1                           ±3                              ±4
  8                     -3                           ±4                              ±5
  9                     -5                           ±4                              ±5
  10                    -7                           ±4                              ±5
  11-14                 -9                           ±4                              ±5
  --------------------- ---------------------------- ------------------------------- -------------

  --------------------- ---------------------------- ------------------------------- -------------
  DCS 1 800                                                                          
  Power control level   Nominal Output power (dBm)   Tolerance (dB) for conditions   
                                                     **normal**                      **extreme**
                                                                                     
  1-4                   12                           +0/-2                           +0,5/-2,5
  5                     10                           ±2                              ±3
  6                     8                            ±3                              ±4
  7                     6                            ±3                              ±4
  8                     4                            ±3                              ±4
  9                     2                            ±3                              ±4
  10                    0                            ±3                              ±4
  11                    -2                           ±4                              ±5
  12                    -4                           ±4                              ±5
  13                    -6                           ±4                              ±5
  14                    -8                           ±4                              ±5
  --------------------- ---------------------------- ------------------------------- -------------

NOTE: The above definition of the power control levels for GSM 900 and
DCS 1800 allows to have an equivalent indoor coverage when the same
power control level is applied in GSM 900 and DCS 1800.

Furthermore, the difference in output power actually transmitted by the
CTS-FP between two power control levels where the difference in nominal
output power indicates an increase of 2 dB (taking into account the
restrictions due to nominal maximum and lowest output powers), shall be
+2 ± 1,5 dB. Similarly, if the difference in output power actually
transmitted by the CTS-FP between two power control levels where the
difference in nominal output power indicates an decrease of 2 dB (taking
into account the restrictions due to nominal maximum and lowest output
powers), shall be ‑2 ± 1,5 dB.

### 4.3.2 Output RF spectrum

The specifications contained in this clause apply to CTS-FP, in
frequency hopping as well as in non frequency hopping mode.

Due to the bursty nature of the signal, the output RF spectrum results
from two effects:

‑ the modulation process;

‑ the power ramping up and down (switching transients).

The two effects are specified separately; the measurement method used to
analyse separately those two effects is specified in GSM 11.56. It is
based on the \"ringing effect\" during the transients, and is a
measurement in the time domain, at each point in frequency.

The limits specified thereunder are based on a 5‑pole synchronously
tuned measurement filter.

#### 4.3.2.1 Spectrum due to the modulation and wide band noise

The output RF modulation spectrum is specified in the following tables.
A mask representation of the present document is shown in annex A. The
present document applies for all RF channels supported by the equipment.

The specification applies to the entire of the relevant transmit band
and up to 2 MHz either side.

The specification shall be met under the following measurement
conditions:

\- zero frequency scan, filter bandwidth and video bandwidth of 30 kHz
up to 1800 kHz from the carrier and 100 kHz at 1800 kHz and above from
the carrier, with averaging done over 50 % to 90 % of the useful part of
the transmitted bursts, excluding the midamble, and then averaged over
at least 200 such burst measurements. Above 1800 kHz from the carrier
only measurements centred on 200 kHz multiples are taken with averaging
over 50 bursts;

\- when tests are done in frequency hopping mode, the averaging shall
include only bursts transmitted when the hopping carrier corresponds to
the nominal carrier of the measurement. The specifications then apply to
the measurement results for any of the hopping frequencies.

The power level is the \"actual absolute output power\" defined in
clause 4.3.1.

The figures in tables a) and b) below, at the horizontally listed
frequency offset from the carrier (kHz), are then the maximum allowed
level (dB) relative to a measurement in 30 kHz on the carrier.

a\) GSM 900 CTS-FP:

  ----- ------ ----- ----- ----- --------- --------- ---------
        100    200   250   400   ≥ 600     ≥ 1 800   ≥ 6 000
                                 \<1 800   \<6 000   
  dBc   +0,5   ‑30   ‑33   ‑60   ‑60       ‑68       ‑71
  ----- ------ ----- ----- ----- --------- --------- ---------

b\) DCS 1800 CTS-FP:

  ----- ------ ----- ----- ----- ---------- ---------- ---------
        100    200   250   400   ≥ 600      ≥ 1 800    ≥ 6 000
                                 \< 1 800   \< 6 000   
  dBc   +0,5   -30   ‑33   ‑60   ‑60        ‑63        ‑67
  ----- ------ ----- ----- ----- ---------- ---------- ---------

The following exceptions shall apply, using the same measurement
conditions as specified above:

i\) in the combined range 600 kHz to 6 MHz above and below the carrier,
in up to three bands of 200 kHz width centred on a frequency which is an
integer multiple of 200 kHz, exceptions at up to ‑36 dBm are allowed;

ii\) above 6 MHz offset from the carrier in up to 12 bands of 200 kHz
width centred on a frequency which is an integer multiple of 200 kHz,
exceptions at up to ‑36 dBm are allowed. For the BTS only one
transmitter is active for this test.

Using the same measurement conditions as specified above, if a
requirement in tables a) and b) is tighter than the limit given in the
following, the latter shall be applied instead.

  ----------------------------------- --------- -----------
  Frequency offset from the carrier   GSM 900   DCS 1 800
  \< 1 800 kHz                        ‑69 dBm   ‑64 dBm
  ≥ 1 800 kHz                         ‑64 dBm   ‑59 dBm
  ----------------------------------- --------- -----------

#### 4.3.2.2 Spectrum due to switching transient

Those effects are also measured in the time domain and the
specifications assume the following measurement conditions: zero
frequency scan, filter bandwidth 30 kHz, peak hold, and video bandwidth
100 kHz.

The example of a waveform due to a burst as seen in a 30 kHz filter
offset from the carrier is given in the figure 1 of GSM 05.05.

The maximum level measured, after any filters and combiners, at the
indicated offset from the carrier, shall be:

  --------------------- ------------------------ --------- ----------- -----------
                        Maximum level measured                         
                        400 kHz                  600 kHz   1 200 kHz   1 800 kHz
  GSM 900 / DCS 1 800   -36 dBm                  ‑36 dBm   ‑36 dBm     ‑36 dBm
  --------------------- ------------------------ --------- ----------- -----------

### 4.3.3 Spurious emission

The limits specified thereunder are based on a 5‑pole synchronously
tuned measurement filter.

#### 4.3.3.1 Principle of the specification

In this clause, the spurious transmissions (whether modulated or
unmodulated) and the switching transients are specified together by
measuring the peak power in a given bandwidth at various frequencies.
The bandwidth is increased as the frequency offset between the
measurement frequency and, either the carrier, or the edge of the CTS-FP
transmit band, increases. The effect for spurious signals of widening
the measurement bandwidth is to reduce the allowed total spurious energy
per MHz. The effect for switching transients is to effectively reduce
the allowed level of the switching transients (the peak level of a
switching transient increases by 6 dB for each doubling of the
measurement bandwidth). The conditions are specified in the following
table, a peak‑hold measurement being assumed.

The measurement conditions for radiated and conducted spurious are
specified separately in GSM 11.56. The frequency bands where these are
actually measured may differ from one type to the other (see GSM 11.56).

a\)

  ------------------- ----------------------- -----------------------
  Band                Frequency offset        Measurement bandwidth
                      (offset from carrier)   
  relevant transmit   ≥ 1,8 MHz               30 kHz
  band                ≥ 6 MHz                 100 kHz
  ------------------- ----------------------- -----------------------

b\)

  --------------------------- -------------------------- -----------------------
  Band                        Frequency offset           Measurement bandwidth
  100 kHz to 50 MHz           ‑                          10 kHz
  50 MHz to 500 MHz           ‑                          100 kHz
  above 500 MHz outside the   (offset from edge of the   
  relevant transmit band      relevant above band)       
                              ≥ 2 MHz                    30 kHz
                              ≥ 5 MHz                    100 kHz
                              ≥ 10 MHz                   300 kHz
                              ≥ 20 MHz                   1 MHz
                              ≥ 30 MHz                   3 MHz
  --------------------------- -------------------------- -----------------------

The measurement settings assumed correspond, for the resolution
bandwidth to the value of the measurement bandwidth in the table, and
for the video bandwidth to approximately three times this value.

#### 4.3.3.2 Requirements

The power measured in the conditions specified in clause 4.3.3.1a, for a
CTS-FP when allocated a channel, shall be no more than ‑36 dBm.

The power measured in the conditions specified in clause 4.3.3.1b for a
CTS-FP, when allocated a channel, shall be no more than:

‑ 250 nW (‑36 dBm) in the frequency band 9 kHz to 1 GHz;

‑ 1 µW (‑30 dBm) in the frequency band 1 GHz to 12,75 GHz.

When allocated a channel, the power emitted by the CTS-FP, when measured
using the measurement conditions specified in 4.3.2.1, but with
averaging over at least 50 burst measurements, with a filter and video
bandwidth of 100 kHz, for measurements centred on 200 kHz multiples, in
the band 880 MHz to 915 MHz shall be no more than ‑75 dBm, and in the
band 1 710 MHz to 1 785 MHz, shall be no more than -69 dBm.

As exceptions up to five measurements with a level up to ‑36 dBm are
permitted in each of the bands 880 MHz to 915 MHz and 1 710 MHz to
1 785 MHz for each ARFCN used in the measurements.

When hopping, this applies to each set of measurements, grouped by the
hopping frequencies as described in clause 4.3.2.1.

### 4.3.4 Radio frequency tolerance

The radio frequency tolerance for the CTS-FP is defined in GSM 05.10.

### 4.3.5 Output level dynamic operation

NOTE: The term \"any transmit band channel\" is used here to mean:

any RF channel of 200 kHz bandwidth centred on a multiple of 200 kHz
which is within the relevant transmit band.

The output power can be reduced by steps of 2 dB as defined in
clause 4.3.1.

The transmitted power level relative to time when sending a burst is
shown in annex B. The timing of the transmitted burst is specified in
GSM 05.10. Between the active bursts, the residual output power shall be
maintained at, or below, the level of:

‑ ‑59 dBc or ‑54 dBm, whichever is the greater for GSM 900;

‑ ‑48 dBc or ‑48 dBm, whichever is the greater for DCS 1 800;

in any transmit band channel.

A measurement bandwidth of at least 300 kHz is assumed.

### 4.3.6 Phase accuracy

The same requirements as defined in GSM 05.05 clause 4.6 shall apply.

### 4.3.7 Intermodulation attenuation

The intermodulation attenuation is the ratio of the power level of the
wanted signal to the power level of an intermodulation component. It is
a measure of the capability of the transmitter to inhibit the generation
of signals in its non‑linear elements caused by the presence of the
carrier and an interfering signal reaching the transmitter via the
antenna.

The maximum level of any intermodulation product, when measured as peak
hold in a 300 kHz bandwidth, shall be 50 dB below the wanted signal when
an interfering CW signal is applied within the DCS 1 800 CTS-FP transmit
band at a frequency offset of 800 kHz with a power level 40 dB below the
power level of the wanted (DCS 1 800 modulated) signal.

4.4 Receiver characteristics
----------------------------

In this clause, the requirements are given in terms of power levels at
the antenna connector of the receiver. Equipment with integral antenna
may be taken into account by converting these power level requirements
into field strength requirements, assuming a 0 dBi gain antenna. This
means that the tests on equipment on integral antenna will consider
fields strengths (E) related to the power levels (P) specified, by the
following formula (derived from the formula E = P + 20logF(MHz) + 77.2):

assuming F = 925 MHz : E (dBµV/m) = P (dBm) + 136.5 for GSM 900

assuming F = 1 795 MHz : E (dBµV/m) = P (dBm) + 142.3 for DCS 1 800

Static propagation conditions are assumed in all cases, for both wanted
and unwanted signals. For clauses 4.4.1 and 4.4.2, values given in dBm
are indicative, and calculated assuming a 50 ohms impedance.

### 4.4.1 Blocking characteristics

The blocking characteristics of the receiver are specified separately
for in‑band and out‑of‑band performance as identified in the following
tables.

  ----------------- ----------------------- ---------------------
  Frequency         Frequency range (MHz)   
  band              GSM 900                 GSM 1 800
                    CTS-FP                  CTS-FP
  in‑band           860 ‑ 925               1 690 ‑ 1 805
  out‑of‑band (a)   0.1 ‑ \< 860            0.1 ‑ 1 610
  out‑of‑band (b)   N/A                     \> 1 610 ‑ \< 1 690
  out‑of band (c)   N/A                     \> 1 805 ‑ 1 865
  out‑of band (d)   \> 925 ‑ 12,750         \> 1 865 ‑ 12,750
  ----------------- ----------------------- ---------------------

The reference sensitivity performance as specified in table 1 shall be
met when the following signals are simultaneously input to the receiver:

‑ a useful signal at frequency fo, 3 dB above the reference sensitivity
level as specified in clause 4.5.2;

‑ a continuous, static sine wave signal at a level as in the table below
and at a frequency (f) which is an integer multiple of 200 kHz;

with the following exceptions, called spurious response frequencies:

a\) GSM 900: in band, for a maximum of six occurrences (which if grouped
shall not exceed three contiguous occurrences per group);

DCS 1 800: in band, for a maximum of twelve occurrences (which if
grouped shall not exceed three contiguous occurrences per group);

b\) out of band, for a maximum of 24 occurrences (which if below f0 and
grouped shall not exceed three contiguous occurrences per group).

where the above performance shall be met when the continuous sine wave
signal (f) is set to a level of 70 dBµV (emf) (i.e. ‑43 dBm).

  -------------------------------- --------- ----------- ------- -----
  Frequency                        GSM 900   DCS 1 800           
  band                             CTS-FP    CTS-FP              
                                   dBµV      dBm         dBµV    dBm
                                   (emf)                 (emf)   
  in‑band                                                        
  600 kHz ≤ \|f‑fo \| \< 800 kHz   70        ‑43         70      ‑43
  800 kHz ≤ \|f‑fo \| \< 1.6 MHz   70        ‑43         70      ‑43
  1.6 MHz ≤ \|f‑fo \| \< 3 MHz     80        ‑33         80      ‑33
  3 MHz ≤ \|f‑fo \|                90        ‑23         87      ‑26
  out‑of‑band                                                    
  \(a\)                            113       0           113     0
  \(b\)                            ‑         ‑           101     ‑12
  \(c\)                            ‑         ‑           101     ‑12
  \(d\)                            113       0           113     0
  -------------------------------- --------- ----------- ------- -----

The following exceptions to the level of the sine wave signal (f) in the
above table shall apply:

  --------------------------------------------- --------
  for E-GSM CTS-FP, in the band 925 - 935 MHz   ‑5 dBm
  --------------------------------------------- --------

### 4.4.2 AM suppression characteristics

The reference sensitivity performance as specified in table 1 shall be
met when the following signals are simultaneously input to the receiver.

‑ A useful signal at fo, 3dB above reference sensitivity level as
specified in clause 4.5.2.

‑ A single frequency (f), in the relevant receive band, \| f‑fo \| \>
6 MHz, which is an integer multiple of 200 kHz, a GSM TDMA signal
modulated by any 148‑bit sequence of the 511‑bit pseudo random bit
sequence, defined in CCITT Recommendation O.153 fascicle IV.4, at a
level as defined in the table below. The interferer shall have one
timeslot active and the frequency shall be at least 2 channels separated
from any identified spurious response. The transmitted bursts shall be
synchronized to but delayed in time between 61 and 86 bit periods
relative to the bursts of the wanted signal.

NOTE: When testing this requirement, a notch filter may be necessary to
ensure that the co‑channel performance of the receiver is not
compromised.

  ----------- --------
              CTS-FP
              (dBm)
  GSM 900     ‑31
  DCS 1 800   ‑31
  ----------- --------

### 4.4.3 Intermodulation characteristics

The reference sensitivity performance as specified in table 1 shall be
met when the following signals are simultaneously input to the receiver:

‑ a useful signal at frequency fo, 3 dB above the reference sensitivity
level as specified in clause 4.5.2;

‑ a continuous, static sine wave signal at frequency f1 and a level of
64 dBµV (emf) (i.e. ‑49 dBm);

‑ any 148‑bits subsequence of the 511‑bits pseudo‑random sequence,
defined in CCITT Recommendation O.153 fascicle IV.4 modulating a signal
at frequency f2, and a level of 64 dBµV (emf) (i.e. ‑49 dBm):

such that f0 = 2f1 ‑ f2 and \|f2‑f1 \| = 800 kHz.

NOTE: For clauses 4.4.2 and 4.4.3 instead of any 148‑bits subsequence of
the 511‑bits pseudo‑random sequence, defined in CCITT Recommendation
O.153 fascicle IV.4, it is also allowed to use a more random
pseudo‑random sequence.

4.5 Transmitter / receiver performance
--------------------------------------

In order to assess the error rate performance that is described in this
clause it is required for a CTS-FP equipment to have a \"loop back\"
facility by which the equipment transmits back the same information that
it decoded, in the same mode. This facility is specified in GSM 11.56.

This clause aims at specifying the receiver performance, taking into
account that transmitter errors must not occur, and that the transmitter
shall be tested separately (see clause 4.3.6). All the values given are
valid if any of the features: discontinuous transmission (DTx),
discontinuous reception (DRx), or frequency hopping (FH) are used or
not. The received power levels under multipath fading conditions given
are the mean powers of the sum of the individual paths.

In this clause power levels are given also in terms of field strength,
assuming a 0 dBi gain antenna, to apply for the test of CTS-FPs with
integral antennas.

According to the CTSARCH operation specified in GSM 05.02 clause 6.5.1
ix), the receiver performance specified in this clause for the CTSARCH
shall be met for at least one of the two bursts sent on the CTSARCH.

### 4.5.1 Nominal error rate

This clause describes the transmission requirements in terms of error
rates in nominal conditions i.e. without interference and with an input
level of 20 dB above the reference sensitivity level. The relevant
propagation conditions appear in GSM 05.05 annex C.

Under the following propagation conditions, the chip error rate,
equivalent to the bit error rate of the non protected bits (TCH/FS,
class II) shall have the following limits:

‑ static channel: BER ≤ 10‑4.

This performance shall be maintained up to ‑40 dBm input level for
static and multipath conditions.

Furthermore, for static conditions, a bit error rate of 10^‑^3 shall be
maintained up to ‑15 dBm for GSM 900, ‑23 dBm for DCS 1 800.

### 4.5.2 Reference sensitivity level

The reference sensitivity performance in terms of frame erasure, bit
error, or residual bit error rates (whichever appropriate) is specified
in table 1, according to the type of channel and the propagation
condition. Propagation conditions other than static and TI5 no FH are
for CTS-FP not relevant and need not be tested.

The actual sensitivity level is defined as the input level for which
this performance is met. The actual sensitivity level shall be less than
a specified limit, called the reference sensitivity level. The reference
sensitivity level shall be:

  --- ---------------------- --- ----------
  ‑   for GSM 900 CTS-FP     :   ‑102 dBm
  ‑   for DCS 1 800 CTS-FP   :   ‑102 dBm
  --- ---------------------- --- ----------

The reference sensitivity performance specified above need not be met in
the following cases:

\- for CTS-FP at the static channel, if the received level on either of
the two adjacent timeslots to the wanted exceed the wanted timeslot by
more than 20 dB.

The interfering adjacent time slots shall be static with valid GSM
signals in all cases.

NOTE: in the TI5 no FH propagation channel, the CTS-FP shall meet a
performance equal to that for the TU50 no FH (900MHz) for a useful
signal 3dB greater than the relevant reference sensitivity.

### 4.5.3 Reference interference level

The reference interference performance (for cochannel, C/Ic, or adjacent
channel, C/Ia) in terms of frame erasure, bit error or residual bit
error rates (whichever appropriate) is specified in table 2, according
to the type of channel. Propagation conditions other than static and TI5
no FH are for CTS-FP not relevant and need not be tested.

The actual interference ratio is defined as the interference ratio for
which this performance is met. The actual interference ratio shall be
less than a specified limit, called the reference interference ratio.
The reference interference ratio shall be:

  --- ------------------------------------- --- ------- --- --------
  ‑   for cochannel interference            :   C/Ic    =   9 dB
  ‑   for adjacent (200 kHz) interference   :   C/Ia1   =   ‑9 dB
  ‑   for adjacent (400 kHz) interference   :   C/Ia2   =   ‑41 dB
  ‑   for adjacent (600 kHz) interference   :   C/Ia3   =   ‑49 dB
  --- ------------------------------------- --- ------- --- --------

These specifications apply for a wanted signal input level of 20 dB
above the reference sensitivity level, and for a random, continuous,
GSM‑modulated interfering signal. However, the CTS-FP 900MHz and 1800MHz
need only meet, measured in the TI5 no FH propagation channel, an
interference performance equal to that for the TU50 no FH channel
(900MHz) with a useful C/I of 4dB greater than the relevant interference
performance.

In any case the wanted and interfering signals shall be subject to the
same propagation profiles (see GSM 05.05 annex C), independent on the
two channels.

For adjacent channel interference, if in order to ease measurement, a
TI5 (no FH) faded wanted signal, and a static adjacent channel
interferer are used, the interference performance shall be:

GSM 900 DCS 1 800

TCH/FS (FER): 10,2α % 5,1α %

Class Ib (RBER): 0,72/α % 0,45/α %

Class II (RBER): 8,8 % 8,9 %

FACCH (FER): 17,1 % 6,1 %

when a margin of 4dB above reference sensitivity is included.

### 4.5.4 Erroneous frame indication performance

a\) On a speech TCH (TCH/FS or TCH/HS) with a random RF input, of the
frames believed to be FACCH or SACCH, the overall reception performance
shall be such that no more than 0,002 % of the frames are assessed to be
error free.

b\) On a speech TCH (TCH/FS or TCH/HS) with a random RF input, the
overall reception performance shall be such that, on average, less than
one undetected bad speech frame (false bad frame indication BFI) shall
be measured in one minute.

c\) On a speech TCH (TCH/FS or TCH/HS), when DTX is activated with SID
frames and SACCH frames received 20 dB above the reference sensitivity
level and with no transmission at the other bursts of the TCH, the
overall reception shall be such that, on average, less than one
undetected bad speech frame (false bad frame indication BFI) shall be
measured in one minute for CTS-FP.

d\) For a CTS-FP on a CTSARCH with a random RF input, the overall
reception performance shall be such that less than 0,02 % of frames are
assessed to be error free.

### 4.5.5 Access performance at high input levels

Under static propagation conditions with a received input level from 20
dB above the reference sensitivity level up to ‑15 dBm for GSM900 and
‑23 dBm for DCS1800, and a single CTS-MS sending an access request, the
CTS-FP FER shall be less than 1% for CTSARCH.

### 4.5.6 Frequency hopping performance under interference conditions

Under the following conditions:

\- a useful signal, cyclic frequency hopping over four carriers under
static conditions, with equal input levels 20 dB above reference
sensitivity level;

\- a random, continuous, GMSK-modulated interfering signal on only one
of the carriers at a level 10 dB higher than the useful signal.

The FER for TCH/FS shall be less than 5%.

Table 1: Reference sensitivity performance

  ---------------------------------- ------------------------ ---------- --------
  GSM 900                                                                

  Type of                            Propagation conditions              

  channel                            static                   TI5\       
                                                              (no FH)    

  FACCH/H                            (FER)                    0,1 %      6,9 %

  FACCH/F                            (FER)                    0,1 %      8,0 %

  CTSAGCH, CTSPCH,\                  (FER)                    0,1 %      13 %
  SACCH                                                                  

  CTSBCH-SB, CTSARCH                 (FER)                    1 %        16 %

  TCH/FS                             (FER)                    0,1α %     6α %

  class Ib (RBER)                    0,4/α %                  0,4/α %    

  class II (RBER)                    2 %                      8 %        

  TCH/EFS                            (FER)                    \< 0,1 %   8 %

                                     (RBER Ib)                \< 0,1 %   0,21 %

                                     (RBER II)                2,0 %      7 %

  TCH/HS                             (FER)                    0,025 %    4,1 %

  class Ib (RBER, BFI=0)             0,001 %                  0,36 %     

  class II (RBER, BFI=0)             0,72 %                   6,9 %      

                                     (UFR)                    0,048 %    5,6 %

  class Ib (RBER,(BFI or UFI)=0)     0,001 %                  0,24 %     

                                     (EVSIDR)                 0,06 %     6,8 %

  (RBER, SID=2 and (BFI or UFI)=0)   0,001 %                  0,01 %     

                                     (ESIDR)                  0,01 %     3,0 %

  (RBER, SID=1 or SID=2)             0,003 %                  0,3 %      

  DCS 1 800                                                              

  Type of                            Propagation conditions              

  channel                            static                   TI5\       
                                                              (no FH)    

  FACCH/H                            (FER)                    0,1 %      7,2 %

  FACCH/F                            (FER)                    0,1 %      3,9 %

  CTSAGCH, CTSPCH,\                  (FER)                    0,1 %      9 %
  SACCH                                                                  

  CTSBCH-SB, CTSARCH                 (FER)                    1 %        19 %

  TCH/FS                             (FER)                    0,1α %     3α %

  class Ib (RBER)                    0,4/α %                  0,3/α %    

  class II (RBER)                    2 %                      8 %        

  TCH/EFS                            (FER)                    \< 0,1 %   4 %

                                     (RBER Ib)                \< 0,1 %   0,12 %

                                     (RBER II)                2,0 %      8 %

                                                                         

  (continued)                                                            
  ---------------------------------- ------------------------ ---------- --------

Table 1 (concluded): Reference sensitivity performance

+------------------------+------------------------+---------+-------+
| **DCS 1 800**          |                        |         |       |
+------------------------+------------------------+---------+-------+
| Type of Channel        | Propagation conditions |         |       |
+------------------------+------------------------+---------+-------+
|                        | static                 | TI5\    |       |
|                        |                        | (no FH) |       |
+------------------------+------------------------+---------+-------+
| TCH/HS                 | (FER)                  | 0,025 % | 4,2 % |
+------------------------+------------------------+---------+-------+
| class Ib (RBER, BFI=0) | 0,001 %                | 0,38 %  |       |
+------------------------+------------------------+---------+-------+
| class II (RBER, BFI=0) | 0,72 %                 | 6,9 %   |       |
+------------------------+------------------------+---------+-------+
| (UFR)                  | 0,048 %                | 5,7 %   |       |
+------------------------+------------------------+---------+-------+
| class Ib (RBER, (BFI   | 0,001 %                | 0,26 %  |       |
| or UFI)=0)             |                        |         |       |
+------------------------+------------------------+---------+-------+
| (EVSIDR)               | 0,06 %                 | 7,0 %   |       |
+------------------------+------------------------+---------+-------+
| (RBER, SID=2 and (BFI  | 0,001 %                | 0,01 %  |       |
| or UFI)=0)             |                        |         |       |
+------------------------+------------------------+---------+-------+
| (ESIDR)                | 0,01 %                 | 3,0 %   |       |
+------------------------+------------------------+---------+-------+
| (RBER, SID=1 or SID=2) | 0,003 %                | 0,33 %  |       |
+------------------------+------------------------+---------+-------+
| NOTE 1: Definitions:   |                        |         |       |
|                        |                        |         |       |
| FER: Frame erasure     |                        |         |       |
| rate (frames marked    |                        |         |       |
| with BFI=1).           |                        |         |       |
|                        |                        |         |       |
| UFR: Unreliable frame  |                        |         |       |
| rate (frames marked    |                        |         |       |
| with (BFI or UFI)=1).  |                        |         |       |
|                        |                        |         |       |
| EVSIDR: Erased Valid   |                        |         |       |
| SID frame rate (frames |                        |         |       |
| marked with (SID=0) or |                        |         |       |
| (SID=1) or ((BFI or    |                        |         |       |
| UFI)=1) if a valid SID |                        |         |       |
| frame was              |                        |         |       |
| transmitted).          |                        |         |       |
|                        |                        |         |       |
| ESIDR: Erased SID      |                        |         |       |
| frame rate (frames     |                        |         |       |
| marked with SID=0 if a |                        |         |       |
| valid SID frame was    |                        |         |       |
| transmitted).          |                        |         |       |
|                        |                        |         |       |
| BER: Bit error rate.   |                        |         |       |
|                        |                        |         |       |
| RBER, BFI=0: Residual  |                        |         |       |
| bit error rate         |                        |         |       |
| (defined as the ratio  |                        |         |       |
| of the number of       |                        |         |       |
| errors detected over   |                        |         |       |
| the frames defined as  |                        |         |       |
| \"good\" to the number |                        |         |       |
| of transmitted bits in |                        |         |       |
| the \"good\" frames).  |                        |         |       |
| RBER, (BFI or UFI)=0:  |                        |         |       |
| Residual bit error     |                        |         |       |
| rate (defined as the   |                        |         |       |
| ratio of the number of |                        |         |       |
| errors detected over   |                        |         |       |
| the frames defined as  |                        |         |       |
| \"reliable\" to the    |                        |         |       |
| number of transmitted  |                        |         |       |
| bits in the            |                        |         |       |
| \"reliable\" frames).  |                        |         |       |
|                        |                        |         |       |
| RBER, SID=2 and (BFI   |                        |         |       |
| or UFI)=0: Residual    |                        |         |       |
| bit error rate of      |                        |         |       |
| those bits in class I  |                        |         |       |
| which do not belong to |                        |         |       |
| the SID codeword       |                        |         |       |
| (defined as the ratio  |                        |         |       |
| of the number of       |                        |         |       |
| errors detected over   |                        |         |       |
| the frames that are    |                        |         |       |
| defined as \"valid SID |                        |         |       |
| frames\" to the number |                        |         |       |
| of transmitted bits in |                        |         |       |
| these frames, under    |                        |         |       |
| the condition that a   |                        |         |       |
| valid SID frame was    |                        |         |       |
| sent).                 |                        |         |       |
|                        |                        |         |       |
| RBER, SID=1 or SID=2:  |                        |         |       |
| Residual bit error     |                        |         |       |
| rate of those bits in  |                        |         |       |
| class I which do not   |                        |         |       |
| belong to the SID      |                        |         |       |
| codeword (defined as   |                        |         |       |
| the ratio of the       |                        |         |       |
| number of errors       |                        |         |       |
| detected over the      |                        |         |       |
| frames that are        |                        |         |       |
| defined as \"valid SID |                        |         |       |
| frames\" or as         |                        |         |       |
| \"invalid SID frames\" |                        |         |       |
| to the number of       |                        |         |       |
| transmitted bits in    |                        |         |       |
| these frames, under    |                        |         |       |
| the condition that a   |                        |         |       |
| valid SID frame was    |                        |         |       |
| sent).                 |                        |         |       |
|                        |                        |         |       |
| NOTE 2: 1 ≤ α ≤ 1,6.   |                        |         |       |
| The value of α can be  |                        |         |       |
| different for each     |                        |         |       |
| channel condition but  |                        |         |       |
| must remain the same   |                        |         |       |
| for FER and class Ib   |                        |         |       |
| RBER measurements for  |                        |         |       |
| the same channel       |                        |         |       |
| condition.             |                        |         |       |
|                        |                        |         |       |
| NOTE 3: FER for        |                        |         |       |
| CTSCCHs takes into     |                        |         |       |
| account frames which   |                        |         |       |
| are signalled as being |                        |         |       |
| erroneous (by the FIRE |                        |         |       |
| code, parity bits, or  |                        |         |       |
| other means) or where  |                        |         |       |
| the stealing flags are |                        |         |       |
| wrongly interpreted.   |                        |         |       |
+------------------------+------------------------+---------+-------+

Table 2: Reference interference performance

  ---------------------------------- ------------------------ --------
  GSM 900                                                     

  Type of channel                    Propagation conditions   

                                     TI5 (no FH)              

  FACCH/H                            (FER)                    6,7 %

  FACCH/F                            (FER)                    9,5 %

  CTSAGCH, CTSPCH,\                  (FER)                    13 %
  SACCH                                                       

  CTSBCH-SB, CTSARCH                 (FER)                    17 %

  TCH/FS                             (FER)                    6α %

  class Ib (RBER)                    0,4/α %                  

  class II (RBER)                    8 %                      

  TCH/EFS                            (FER)                    9 %

                                     (RBER Ib)                0,20 %

                                     (RBER II)                7 %

  TCH/HS                             (FER)                    5,0 %

  class Ib (RBER, BFI=0)             0,29 %                   

  class II (RBER, BFI=0)             7,1 %                    

                                     (UFR)                    6,1 %

  class Ib (RBER,(BFI or UFI)=0)     0,21 %                   

                                     (EVSIDR)                 7,0 %

  (RBER, SID=2 and (BFI or UFI)=0)   0,01 %                   

                                     (ESIDR)                  3,6 %

  (RBER, SID=1 or SID=2)             0,26 %                   

  DCS 1 800                                                   

  Type of channel                    Propagation conditions   

                                     TI5 (no FH)              

  FACCH/H                            (FER)                    6,9 %

  FACCH/F                            (FER)                    3,4 %

  CTSAGCH, CTSPCH,\                  (FER)                    9 %
  SACCH                                                       

  CTSBCH-SB, CTSARCH                 (FER)                    19 %

  TCH/FS                             (FER)                    3α %

  class Ib (RBER)                    0,25/α %                 

  class II (RBER)                    8,1 %                    

  TCH/EFS                            (FER)                    3 %

                                     (RBER Ib)                0,10 %

                                     (RBER II)                8 %

                                                              

  (continued)                                                 
  ---------------------------------- ------------------------ --------

Table 2 (concluded): Reference interference performance

+-----------------------------+------------------------+-------+
| DCS 1 800                   |                        |       |
+-----------------------------+------------------------+-------+
| Type of channel             | Propagation conditions |       |
+-----------------------------+------------------------+-------+
|                             | TI5 (no FH)            |       |
+-----------------------------+------------------------+-------+
| TCH/HS                      | (FER)                  | 5,0 % |
+-----------------------------+------------------------+-------+
| class Ib (RBER, BFI=0)      | 0,29 %                 |       |
+-----------------------------+------------------------+-------+
| class II (RBER, BFI=0)      | 7,2 %                  |       |
+-----------------------------+------------------------+-------+
| (UFR)                       | 6,1 %                  |       |
+-----------------------------+------------------------+-------+
| class Ib (RBER, (BFI or     | 0,21 %                 |       |
| UFI)=0)                     |                        |       |
+-----------------------------+------------------------+-------+
| (EVSIDR)                    | 7,0 %                  |       |
+-----------------------------+------------------------+-------+
| (RBER, SID=2 and (BFI or    | 0,01 %                 |       |
| UFI)=0)                     |                        |       |
+-----------------------------+------------------------+-------+
| (ESIDR)                     | 3,6 %                  |       |
+-----------------------------+------------------------+-------+
| (RBER, SID=1 or SID=2)      | 0,26 %                 |       |
+-----------------------------+------------------------+-------+
| NOTE 1: Definitions:        |                        |       |
|                             |                        |       |
| FER: Frame erasure rate     |                        |       |
| (frames marked with BFI=1). |                        |       |
|                             |                        |       |
| UFR: Unreliable frame rate  |                        |       |
| (frames marked with (BFI or |                        |       |
| UFI)=1).                    |                        |       |
|                             |                        |       |
| EVSIDR: Erased Valid SID    |                        |       |
| frame rate (frames marked   |                        |       |
| with (SID=0) or (SID=1) or  |                        |       |
| ((BFI or UFI)=1) if a valid |                        |       |
| SID frame was transmitted). |                        |       |
|                             |                        |       |
| ESIDR: Erased SID frame     |                        |       |
| rate (frames marked with    |                        |       |
| SID=0 if a valid SID frame  |                        |       |
| was transmitted).           |                        |       |
|                             |                        |       |
| BER: Bit error rate.        |                        |       |
|                             |                        |       |
| RBER, BFI=0: Residual bit   |                        |       |
| error rate (defined as the  |                        |       |
| ratio of the number of      |                        |       |
| errors detected over the    |                        |       |
| frames defined as \"good\"  |                        |       |
| to the number of            |                        |       |
| transmitted bits in the     |                        |       |
| \"good\" frames).           |                        |       |
|                             |                        |       |
| RBER, (BFI or UFI)=0:       |                        |       |
| Residual bit error rate     |                        |       |
| (defined as the ratio of    |                        |       |
| the number of errors        |                        |       |
| detected over the frames    |                        |       |
| defined as \"reliable\" to  |                        |       |
| the number of transmitted   |                        |       |
| bits in the \"reliable\"    |                        |       |
| frames).                    |                        |       |
|                             |                        |       |
| RBER, SID=2 and (BFI or     |                        |       |
| UFI)=0: Residual bit error  |                        |       |
| rate of those bits in class |                        |       |
| I which do not belong to    |                        |       |
| the SID codeword (defined   |                        |       |
| as the ratio of the number  |                        |       |
| of errors detected over the |                        |       |
| frames that are defined as  |                        |       |
| \"valid SID frames\" to the |                        |       |
| number of transmitted bits  |                        |       |
| in these frames, under the  |                        |       |
| condition that a valid SID  |                        |       |
| frame was sent).            |                        |       |
|                             |                        |       |
| RBER, SID=1 or SID=2:       |                        |       |
| Residual bit error rate of  |                        |       |
| those bits in class I which |                        |       |
| do not belong to the SID    |                        |       |
| codeword (defined as the    |                        |       |
| ratio of the number of      |                        |       |
| errors detected over the    |                        |       |
| frames that are defined as  |                        |       |
| \"valid SID frames\" or as  |                        |       |
| \"invalid SID frames\" to   |                        |       |
| the number of transmitted   |                        |       |
| bits in these frames, under |                        |       |
| the condition that a valid  |                        |       |
| SID frame was sent).        |                        |       |
|                             |                        |       |
| NOTE 2: 1 ≤ α ≤ 1,6. The    |                        |       |
| value of α can be different |                        |       |
| for each channel condition  |                        |       |
| but must remain the same    |                        |       |
| for FER and class Ib RBER   |                        |       |
| measurements for the same   |                        |       |
| channel condition.          |                        |       |
|                             |                        |       |
| NOTE 3: FER for CTSCCHs     |                        |       |
| takes into account frames   |                        |       |
| which are signalled as      |                        |       |
| being erroneous (by the     |                        |       |
| FIRE code, parity bits, or  |                        |       |
| other means) or where the   |                        |       |
| stealing flags are wrongly  |                        |       |
| interpreted.                |                        |       |
+-----------------------------+------------------------+-------+

5 Radio subsystem frequency control
===================================

Procedures shall be implemented in the CTS-FP by which it manages the
radio frequency channels used for traffic or signalling between the
CTS-FP and its attached CTS-MS. Those procedures shall be:

\- adaptive Frequency Allocation (AFA) algorithm;

\- TFH carrier list selection;

\- CTS Beacon channel carrier selection;

\- timeslot assignment for dedicated connection.

5.1 Void
--------

5.2 General
-----------

The list of carriers on which the CTS-FP and CTS-MS are allowed to
operate is called the Generic Frequency List (GFL). Different mechanisms
are specified, in order to ensure that the CTS-FP and CTS-MS are using
the most appropriate frequencies for transmission and reception.

5.3 Adaptive Frequency Allocation (AFA)
---------------------------------------

An Adaptive Frequency Allocation (AFA) algorithm shall be implemented in
the CTS-FP. The input of the AFA algorithm shall be the table of
interference levels measured by the CTS-MS during the AFA monitoring
procedure (see GSM 05.08) on a subset of carriers of the GFL. These
interference levels shall be filtered by the AFA algorithm, so that an
ordered list of frequency carriers called the AFA table is generated.

The use of the AFA algorithm shall be controlled by the parameter
AFA\_USE; in the case where the AFA algorithm is not used, the AFA table
shall contain the complete GFL.

5.4 TFH carrier list selection
------------------------------

A set of frequencies shall be selected from the AFA table by the CTS-FP
for effective use by the CTS-FP and CTS-MS performing frequency hopping.
This subset of frequencies is called the TFH carrier list. The decision
for the carriers to be included in the TFH carrier list shall be defined
by performing the acceptance procedure, which is controlled by the
parameters given in table 3.

In the case where the AFA algorithm is not used, the TFH carrier list
shall contain the complete GFL.

### 5.4.1 Acceptance procedure

The absolute received signal level of a carrier shall be considered by
defining different ranges in which different approaches with different
parameters shall be applied. The algorithm shall start at the lowest
range up to the highest until the stop condition of the applied criteria
is reached. If the upper bound of the range is reached, the next range
shall be processed. When one approach stops or the last range is
finished, the list extension check shall be performed. The following
approaches are defined.

#### 5.4.1.1 Basic threshold

The basic threshold approach shall always start from the carrier with
the lowest interference level in the AFA table. All carriers below the
higher bound of this range shall be included in the TFH carrier list.
The second purpose is to assure that a minimum number of carriers is
used. Therefore, the maximum from both conditions shall be used.

#### 5.4.1.2 Sliding window technique

Within a window containing a fixed number (SWT\_SIZE\_WIN) of the last
carriers which were accepted, the average interference level shall be
calculated. The interference level of the next carrier to be added shall
be compared with the calculated average interference level. If the
difference exceeds a distinct threshold INTERF\_THRESHOLD, the stop
condition is reached, otherwise the carrier shall be added to the TFH
carrier list.

#### 5.4.1.3 Fixed window technique

Within a window initially containing a fixed number (FWT\_SIZE\_WIN) of
the last carriers which were accepted, the average interference level
shall be calculated. The interference level of the next carrier to be
added shall be compared with the calculated average interference level.
If the difference exceeds a distinct threshold INTERF\_THRESHOLD, the
stop condition is reached. Otherwise, the carrier shall be added to the
TFH carrier list and the window size shall be increased.

#### 5.4.1.4 List extension check

After one of the other techniques stopped, the next carriers shall be
compared with the last added carrier where the stop condition occurs. If
the difference does not exceed a distinct threshold INTERF\_THRESHOLD,
the carrier shall be added to the TFH carrier list.

### 5.4.2 Parameters

At least one range shall be defined by using the parameters given in the
table 3. When only one range is defined the basic threshold approach
shall be applied. The sliding and fixed window technique can be used in
more than only one range with a separate parameter set for each.

The first range defined shall start at a received signal level of -110
dBm and stop the upper bound defined in the parameter SEL\_RANGE(1). The
range k shall start at the upper bound of the previous range (k-1) and
stop at the upper bound defined in the parameter SEL\_RANGE(k).

### 5.4.3 AFA and TFH selection performance requirements

Considering the following scenario:

\- the GFL of the CTS-FP shall be a list of 9 carriers (f~1~ to f~9~);

\- a table of received interference levels measured by the CTS-MS shall
be reported to the CTS-FP (see GSM 05.08) with the following values:

  ------ --------------------------------------
         Received interference level (in dBm)
  f~1~   -95 dBm
  f~2~   -80 dBm
  f~3~   -95 dBm
  f~4~   -85 dBm
  f~5~   -80 dBm
  f~6~   -95 dBm
  f~7~   -95 dBm
  f~8~   -95 dBm
  f~9~   -85 dBm
  ------ --------------------------------------

\- the signal levels received by the CTS-FP on the 9 carriers of the GFL
shall be less than -95 dBm;

\- the parameters of the TFH carrier list selection shall be set as
follows:

  ----------------------- ----------
  Parameter name          Value
  SEL\_RANGE (1)          -108 dBm
  APPROACH\_TYPE (1)      BASIC
  MIN\_NB\_FREQ           4
  SEL\_RANGE (2)          -102 dBm
  APPROACH\_TYPE (2)      SWT
  SWT\_SIZE\_WIN (2)      4
  INTERF\_THRESHOLD (2)   5 dB
  SEL\_RANGE (3)          -94 dBm
  APPROACH\_TYPE (3)      FWT
  SWT\_SIZE\_WIN (3)      3
  INTERF\_THRESHOLD (3)   4 dB
  SEL\_RANGE (4)          -48 dBm
  APPROACH\_TYPE (4)      EXT
  SWT\_SIZE\_WIN (4)      1
  INTERF\_THRESHOLD (4)   1 dB
  ----------------------- ----------

With this scenario, after 6 successive AFA monitoring reports sent by
the CTS-MS with the received interference levels specified above, the
AFA and TFH carrier list selection procedures shall have selected the
following TFH carrier list: (f~1~, f~3~, f~6~, f~7~, f~8~).

5.5 CTS Beacon channel carrier selection
----------------------------------------

A particular carrier shall be selected from the TFH carrier list : the
CTS Beacon channel carrier. This carrier shall be used for the
transmission of the CTSBCH in the downlink as well as for the
transmission of other channels, as specified in GSM 05.02.

Two selection techniques shall be used:

\- a random carrier from the TFH carrier list shall be selected;

\- the carrier of the TFH carrier list showing the lowest interference
level shall be selected.

The specification of the selection technique to use shall be indicated
in the CTSBCH\_SEL\_MODE parameter.

5.6 Timeslot assignment for dedicated connection
------------------------------------------------

When the CTS-FP is attempting to establish a dedicated connection with a
CTS-MS, the CTS-FP should select the timeslot showing the lowest
received interference level. The selection should be based on
measurements of received interference level performed by the CTS-FP on
the uplink : a running average on at least 5 collected measurement
samples should be maintained by the CTS-FP for each of the 8 timeslots
of a TDMA frame, in order to assess the received interference level per
timeslot.

5.7 Frequency control parameters
--------------------------------

The parameters employed to control in frequency the radio link are shown
in table 3.

Table 3: Radio sub‑system frequency control parameters

+-------------------------+-------------------------+--------+------+
| Parameter name          | Description             | Range  | Bits |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+--------+------+
| GFL (1-m)               | Generic Frequency List: | 0-1023 | 10   |
|                         | contains m carriers     |        |      |
|                         | represented by their    |        |      |
|                         | ARFCN                   |        |      |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+--------+------+
| AFA\_USE                | Enable the use of the   | 0-1    | 1    |
|                         | AFA algorithm:          |        |      |
|                         |                         |        |      |
|                         | 0: used                 |        |      |
|                         |                         |        |      |
|                         | 1: not used             |        |      |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+--------+------+
| SEL\_RANGE (1-n)        | Upper bound of TFH      | 0-31   | 5    |
|                         | carrier list selection  |        |      |
|                         | range n°:               |        |      |
|                         |                         |        |      |
|                         | -110, -108, \..., -48   |        |      |
|                         | dBm in steps of 2 dBm   |        |      |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+--------+------+
| APPROACH\_TYPE (1-n)    | Type of approach used   | 0-3    | 2    |
|                         | in selection range n°:  |        |      |
|                         |                         |        |      |
|                         | 00: Basic threshold     |        |      |
|                         | (BASIC)                 |        |      |
|                         |                         |        |      |
|                         | 01: Sliding window      |        |      |
|                         | technique (SWT)         |        |      |
|                         |                         |        |      |
|                         | 10: Fixed window        |        |      |
|                         | technique (FWT)         |        |      |
|                         |                         |        |      |
|                         | 11: List extension      |        |      |
|                         | check (EXT)             |        |      |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+--------+------+
| MIN\_NB\_FREQ           | Minimum number of       | 0-31   | 5    |
|                         | carrier which shall be  |        |      |
|                         | selected for the TFH    |        |      |
|                         | carrier list by the     |        |      |
|                         | Basic threshold         |        |      |
|                         | approach                |        |      |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+--------+------+
| FWT\_SIZE\_WIN (1-n)    | Minimum size of the     | 0-31   | 5    |
|                         | window to compute the   |        |      |
|                         | average for the FWT     |        |      |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+--------+------+
| SWT\_SIZE\_WIN (1-n)    | Fixed size of the       | 0-31   | 5    |
|                         | window to compute the   |        |      |
|                         | average for the SWT     |        |      |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+--------+------+
| INTERF\_THRESHOLD (1-n) | Maximum allowed         | 0-31   | 5    |
|                         | difference between the  |        |      |
|                         | current carrier to add, |        |      |
|                         | and the average value   |        |      |
|                         | for SWT, FWT, and EXT:  |        |      |
|                         |                         |        |      |
|                         | 0, 2, \..., 62 dB in    |        |      |
|                         | steps of 2 dB           |        |      |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+--------+------+
| CTSBCH\_SEL\_MODE       | CTSBCH carrier          | 0-1    | 1    |
|                         | selection mode:         |        |      |
|                         |                         |        |      |
|                         | 0: best carrier of TFH  |        |      |
|                         | carrier list            |        |      |
|                         |                         |        |      |
|                         | 1: random carrier from  |        |      |
|                         | TFH carrier list        |        |      |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+--------+------+

######## Annex A (informative): Spectrum characteristics (spectrum due to the modulation)

![](media/image3.wmf){width="6.25625in" height="7.418055555555555in"}

Figure A.1: GSM 900 CTS-FP spectrum due to modulation

![](media/image4.wmf){width="5.993055555555555in"
height="7.261111111111111in"}

Figure A.2: DCS 1 800 CTS-FP spectrum due to modulation

######## Annex B (normative): Transmitted power level versus time

![](media/image5.wmf){width="5.4125in" height="3.238888888888889in"}

Time mask for normal duration bursts (NB, FB, dB and SB):

  ---------- ---------------------- --- --------------------------------------------------
  (\*)       For GSM 900 CTS-FP     :   -59 dBc or -54 dBm, whichever is the higher.
             For DCS 1 800 CTS-FP   :   -48 dBc or -48 dBm, whichever is the higher.
  (\*\*)     For GSM 900 CTS-FP     :   ‑4 dBc for power control level 8,
                                    :   ‑2 dBc for power level 9,
                                    :   ‑1 dBc for power level controls levels 10 to 14.
             For DCS 1 800 CTS-FP   :   ‑4dBc for power control level 11,
                                    :   ‑2dBc for power level 12,
                                    :   ‑1dBc for power control levels 13 and 14.
  (\*\*\*)   For GSM 900 CTS-FP     :   ‑30 dBc or ‑27 dBm, whichever is the higher.
             For DCS 1 800 CTS-FP   :   ‑30dBc or ‑30dBm, whichever is the higher.
  ---------- ---------------------- --- --------------------------------------------------

######## Annex C (normative): Environmental conditions

C.1 General
===========

This normative annex specifies the environmental requirements of GSM 900
and DCS 1 800 CTS-FP equipment. Within these limits the requirements of
the GSM specifications shall be fulfilled.

C.2 Temperature
===============

The CTS-FP shall fulfil all the requirements in the full temperature
range of:

+15°C ‑ +35°C for normal conditions (with relative humidity of 25 % to
75 %);

+10°C ‑ +40°C for extreme conditions;

Outside this temperature range the CTS-FP, if powered on, shall not make
ineffective use of the radio frequency spectrum. In no case shall the
CTS-FP exceed the output power levels as defined in GSM 05.56 for
extreme operation.

C.3 Voltage
===========

The CTS-FP shall fulfil all the requirements in the full voltage range,
i.e. the voltage range between the extreme voltages.

The manufacturer shall declare the lower and higher extreme voltages and
the approximate shut‑down voltage.

  ------------------ ------------------- -------------------- ------------------
  **Power source**   **Lower extreme**   **Higher extreme**   **Normal cond.**
                     **voltage**         **voltage**          **voltage**
  AC mains           0,9 \* nominal      1,1 \* nominal       nominal
  ------------------ ------------------- -------------------- ------------------

Outside this voltage range the CTS-FP, if powered on, shall not make
ineffective use of the radio frequency spectrum. In no case shall the
CTS-FP exceed the output power levels as defined in GSM 05.56 for
extreme operation. In particular, the CTS-FP shall inhibit all RF
transmissions when the power supply voltage is below the manufacturer
declared shut‑down voltage.

######## Annex D (informative): Change history

  ---------- ----------- -------- ----------- ---------- ----------- ----------------------------------------------------------------
  **SPEC**   **SMG\#**   **CR**   **PHASE**   **VERS**   **NEW\_**   **SUBJECT**
  05.56      s29         A004     R98         7.0.1      7.1.0       Environmental conditions for the CTS-FP
  05.56      s29         A005     R98         7.0.1      7.1.0       Clarification of AFA and TFH selection performance requirement
  05.56      s29         A006     R98         7.0.1      7.1.0       Modification of receiver performance for CTSARCH
  05.56      s31                              7.1.0      8.0.0       Version for Release 1999
  05.56                                       8.0.0      8.0.1       Update to Version 8.0.1 for Publication
  ---------- ----------- -------- ----------- ---------- ----------- ----------------------------------------------------------------

  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- ---------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                              
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                  **New version**
  2001-04              4                                                     Version for Release 4                                4.0.0
  2002-06              10                                                    Version for Release 5                                5.0.0
  2005-01              23                                                    Version for Release 6                                6.0.0
  2007-08              35                                                    Version for Release 7                                7.0.0
  2008-12              40                                                    Version for Release 8                                8.0.0
  2009-12              44                                                    Version for Release 9                                9.0.0
  2011-03              49                                                    Version for Release 10                               10.0.0
  2012-09              55                                                    Version for Release 11                               11.0.0
  2014-09              63                                                    Version for Release 12 (frozen at SP-65)             12.0.0
  2015-12              68                                                    Version for Release 13 (frozen at SP-70)             13.0.0
  2017-03              RP-75         \-         \-       \-        \-        Version for Release 14 (frozen at TSG-75)            14.0.0
  2018-06              RP-80         \-         \-       \-        \-        Version for Release 15(frozen at TSG-80)             15.0.0
  2020-07              RP-88e        \-         \-       \-        \-        Upgrade to Rel-16 version without technical change   **16.0.0**
  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- ---------------------------------------------------- -----------------
