![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[Introduction 4](#introduction)

[1 Scope 5](#scope)

[2 References 5](#references)

[3 Definitions and abbreviations 5](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[3.1 Definitions 5](#definitions)

[3.2 Abbreviations 6](#abbreviations)

[4 Requirements 6](#requirements)

[Annex A (informative): Change history
7](#annex-a-informative-change-history)

Foreword

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

Introduction
============

The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services
and System Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:

**28.661 Generic Radio Access Network (RAN) Network Resource Model
(NRM); Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements**

**28.662** Generic Radio Access Network (**RAN) Network Resource Model
(NRM); Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)**

28.663 Generic Radio Access Network (RAN) Network Resource Model (NRM);
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions

1 Scope
=======

The present document defines, in addition to the requirements defined in
3GPP TS 32.101 \[2\], 3GPP TS 32.102 \[3\] and 3GPP TS 32.600 \[4\], the
Requirements for the common and generic radio access network equipments
that may be shared between BSS in GSM, UTRAN and E‑UTRAN.

The present document can be used also for managing the equipment that
can be shared by several RATs, even in the cases when it is not being
shared.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and
high level requirements\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration
Management (CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration
Reference Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 32.107: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile
Convergence (FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM)\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 28.620: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile
Convergence (FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) Umbrella
Information Model (UIM)\".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 25.106: \"UTRA repeater radio transmission and
reception\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TS 32.150 \[5\], 3GPP TS 32.101 \[2\], 3GPP TS 32.102
\[3\] and 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined
in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
term, if any, in 3GPP TS 32.150 \[5\], 3GPP TS 32.101 \[2\], 3GPP TS
32.102 \[3\] and 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\], in this order.

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

BSS Base Station Subsystem

**CAPEX Capital Expenditure**

E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN

GSM Global System for Mobile communications

IRP Integration Reference Point

NRM Network Resource Model

RAN Radio Access Network

RAT Radio Access Technology

UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network

4 Requirements
==============

It is common that operators operate more than one RAT. To save CAPEX,
some radio equipment can be shared between the different RATs. Radio
equipment can also be shared within a RAT. This NRM makes it easy to
operate such shared radio equipment and to understand the consequences
in all affected RATs when a change is made in a shared equipment.

The following general and high-level requirement applies for the present
IRP:

a\) IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.101 \[2\].

b\) IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.102 \[3\].

c\) IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.600 \[4\].

The NRM defined by this IRP:

d\) Shall support communications for telecommunication network
management purposes, including management of converged networks.

e\) Is a member of the Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) \[6\]
and its information is derived from FNIM Umbrella Information Model
(UIM) \[7\]

In addition, the following more specific requirements apply:

**REQ-GRAN\_NRM-CON-001:** The NRM defined by this IRP shall contain
IOCs and related definitions, supporting equipment that may be shared
between BSS, UTRAN and E-UTRAN networks.

**REQ-GRAN\_NRM-CON-002:** The IRPAgent shall support a capability
allowing the IRPManager to know which RATs are served by each managed
object.

**REQ-GRAN\_NRM-CON-003:** The IRPAgent shall support a capability
allowing the IRPManager to perform basic configuration and retrieve
inventory information of repeater (see 3GPP TS 25.106 \[8\]).

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------ --------- --------- ------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                             
  **Date**             **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                                    **Cat**   **Old**   **New**
  2013-09              SA\#61       SP-130433      001      3         Add missing Repeater Object requirements definitions   F         11.0.0    11.1.0
  2014-06              SA\#64       SP-140359      002      \-        remove the feature support statements                  F         11.1.0    11.2.0
  2014-10              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)                                   11.2.0    **12.0.0**
  2016-01              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)                                   12.0.0    **13.0.0**
  2017-03              SA\#75       \-             \-       \-        Promotion to Release 14 without technical change                 13.0.0    **14.0.0**
  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------ --------- --------- ------------

  ---------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- --------------------------------- -----------------
  **Date**   **Meeting**   **TDoc**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**               **New version**
  2018-06                                                          Upgrade to Rel-15 version (MCC)   15.0.0
  2020-07    \-            \-         \-       \-                  Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)    **16.0.0**
  ---------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- --------------------------------- -----------------
