![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="1.2694444444444444in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[4](#introduction)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[6](#abbreviations)

[6](#pm-concept-and-requirements)

[6](#detailed-requirements)

[6](#overall-pm-concept-of-itf-n)

[7](#management-of-network-performance-measurements)

[7](#management-of-threshold-alarms)

[7](#management-of-measurement-events)

[7](#management-of-measurement-files)

[8](#overview-of-irps-related-to-pm)

[9](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword Introduction 1 Scope 2
References 3 Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2
Abbreviations 4 PM concept and requirements 5 Detailed requirements 5.1
Overall PM concept of Itf-N 5.2 Management of network performance
measurements 5.3 Management of threshold alarms 5.4 Management of
measurement events 5.5 Management of measurement files 6 Overview of
IRPs related to PM Annex A (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

Introduction
============

The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services
and System Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:

**32.411: \"Performance Management (PM) Integration Reference Point
(IRP): Requirements\".**

32.412: \"Performance Management (PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)\".

32.416: \"Performance Management (PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Solution Set (SS) definitions\".

The present document is part of a TS-family which describes the
requirements and information model necessary for the Telecommunication
Management (TM) of 3GPP systems. The TM principles and TM architecture
are specified in 3GPP TS 32.101 \[2\] and 3GPP TS 32.102 \[3\].

A 3GPP system is composed of a multitude of Network Elements (NE) of
various types and, typically, different vendors, which inter-operate in
a co-ordinated manner in order to satisfy the network users\'
communication requirements.

Any evaluation of PLMN-system behaviour will require performance data
collected and recorded by its NEs according to a schedule established by
the EM.

This aspect of the management environment is termed Performance
Management (PM). The purpose of any PM activity is to collect
performance related data, which can be used to locate potential problems
in the network.

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the overall requirements for the
Performance Management Integration Reference Point (PMIRP) as it applies
to the Network Elements (NE), Element Manager (EM) and Network Manager
(NM).

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] Void.

\[2\] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and
high level requirements\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 32.401: \"Telecommunication management; Performance
Management (PM); Concept and requirements\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 32.111-2 to ‑5: \"Telecommunication management; Fault
Management; Parts 2-5: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP)\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 32.30x: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration
Management (CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP)\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 32.341: \"Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 32.412: \"Telecommunication management; Performance
Management (PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".

\[9\] ITU-T Recommendation Q.822: \"Stage 1, Stage 2 and Stage 3
Description for the Q3 Interface -- Performance Management (04/94)\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and
definitions apply:

**alarm notification:** notification used to inform the recipient about
the occurrence of an alarm

**event:** generic term for any type of occurrence within a network
entity**\
**A notification or event report may be used to inform one or more OS(s)
about the occurrence of the event

**granularity period:** the time between the initiation of two
successive gatherings of measurement data

**measurement job:** task for collecting performance measurements

**measurement schedule:** specifies the time frames during which the
measurement job will be active. The measurement schedule contains one or
several recording intervals

**recording interval:** the time period during which the measurement
data is collected within the NE. The length of a recording interval will
be a multiple of the granularity period

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations
apply:

CM Configuration Management

EM Element Manager

FT File Transfer

FTIRP File Transfer Integration Reference Point

FTP File Transfer Protocol

IRP Integration Reference Point

IS Information Service

Itf-N management Interface between the Network and the Network Manager

NE Network Element

NM Network Manager

NRM Network Resource Model

OS Operations System

PM Performance Management

PMIRP Performance Management Integration Reference Point

4 PM concept and requirements
=============================

Refer to 3GPP TS 32.401 \[4\].

5 Detailed requirements
=======================

5.1 Overall PM concept of Itf-N
-------------------------------

An operations system on the network management layer (i.e. the NM)
provides performance management services and functions required by the
3GPP network operator on top of the element management layer.

The N interface (Itf-N) may connect the Network Management system either
to Element Managers (EMs) or directly to the Network Elements (NEs).
This is done by means of Integration Reference Points (IRPs). In the
following, the term \"subordinate entities\" defines either EMs or NEs,
which are in charge of supporting the N interface.

This clause describes the properties of an interface enabling a NM to
supervise a 3GPP system including - if necessary - the managing EMs. To
provide to the NM the Performance Management capability for the network
implies that the NM and the subordinate entities have to agree on the
following:

\- The identification of the performance measurements for each relevant
network resource class, or for instances of a network resource class.

\- The identification of the network resource instances whose
performance measurements are required by NM.

\- The identification of the performance measurement attributes that can
serve as a threshold and the identification of the corresponding
threshold value(s).

\- The identification of the files containing collected performance
measurements for retrieval by NM.

\- Notification of available files containing collected performance
measurements for retrieval by NM.

\- The network configuration (due to the fact that measurement results,
performance alarms and related state change information are always
originated by network resources, see the Configuration Management (CM)
IRPs in 3GPP TS 32.600 series ). This is, however, not part of the PM
functionality.

5.2 Management of network performance measurements
--------------------------------------------------

The IRPManager shall be able to request the IRPAgent to:

\- Collect specific performance measurements on specific network
resources. The network resources, whose performance measurements are to
be managed or collected, must have been modelled by the 3GPP Network
Resource IRP or vendor-specific extended NRM and must be visible via the
Bulk or Basic CM IRP.

\- Collect the performance measurements in a file. The data format of
this file shall be specified in the 3GPP defined set of PM
Specifications.

\- Emit notification announcing the availability of such file(s).

\- Create measurement jobs.

\- Suspend, Resume, and Stop running measurement jobs.

\- Define measurement job schedule, including the definition of the
recording interval(s), job start time and job stop time.

\- Stop scheduled measurement jobs.

\- Report status of the running and scheduled measurement jobs (as
response to corresponding queries from the IRPManager).

It is noted that the IRPAgent can only derive or determine the value of
a performance measurement at the end of a granularity period (status
inspection and discrete event registration). The IRPAgent may also have
to reset the value of a performance measurement at the beginning of a
granularity period. The above IRPAgent behaviours are dependent on the
nature of the performance measurement types (cumulative counter, status
inspection, gauge, and discrete event registration).

5.3 Management of threshold alarms
----------------------------------

The IRPManager shall be able to request the IRPAgent to:

\- Set threshold values to specific performance measurements of specific
network resources.

\- Emit an alarm notification (including clearing) when:\
- (a) the threshold value(s) have been crossed and not just reached, in
a similar fashion as that defined in ITU-T Recommendation Q.822 \[9\]\
or\
- (b) the threshold value(s) have been reached.\
\
It is the IRPAgent's choice to support (a) or (b) (but not both). The
support is on an IRPAgent system wide basis and is not on a per
threshold basis. The IRPAgent's behaviour regarding which approach
(i.e., (a) or (b) above) to use, shall be the same for emitting alarms
and for clearing alarms.

5.4 Management of measurement events
------------------------------------

The IRPManager shall be able to:

\- Subscribe to notifications that carry threshold alarms and
information on the availability of performance measurement data files.

5.5 Management of measurement files
-----------------------------------

The IRPManager shall be able to:

\- Manage the transfer of data files containing performance measurement
data.

\- Request a list of available files, including the specification of
filter.

For information:

\- The requirements for measurement file management may be satisfied by
a separate File Transfer IRP.

6 Overview of IRPs related to PM
================================

The N interface is built up by a number of IRPs. The basic structure of
the IRPs is defined in 3GPP TS 32.101 \[2\] and 3GPP TS 32.102 \[3\].

For the purpose of PM the following IRPs are needed:

\- Performance Management IRP (PMIRP), i.e. 3GPP TS 32.41x-series.

\- Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-series \[5\]).

\- Notification IRP (3GPP TS 32.30x \[6\]).

\- File Transfer IRP (3GPP TS 32.341 \[7\]).

For an IRPAgent to be compliant to the PMIRP IS (3GPP TS 32.412 \[8\]),
it shall minimally include the following:

1\) The support of all mandatory items defined in the PM IRP IS
specification (3GPP TS 32.412 \[8\]\
(e.g., mandatory operations defined within a mandatory interface,
mandatory notifications defined within a mandatory interface).

2\) An FTIRP (3GPP TS 32.341 \[7\]) that shall have:

a\) An FTP Server capability.

b\) The capability to emit notifyFileReady and
notifyFilePreparationError.

c\) A listAvailableFiles operation.

NOTE: Bullet 2 will be replaced with \"A compliant FTIRP\" if the
mandatory operations & notifications in FTIRP IS are finalised and
identical to that defined above.

3\) A compliant NotificationIRP (3GPP TS 32.30x \[6\]).

4\) A compliant AlarmIRP \[5\] if the PM IRPAgent PMIRP supports the
threshold monitoring capabilities.

It is noted that the NotificationIRP (3GPP TS 32.30x \[6\]) may not be
exclusively used by the PMIRP. It may be shared by other xxxIRP(s) such
as BasicCMIRP in the sense that in a single subscribe operation, the
IRPManager can subscribe for both PM and CM related notifications.
Whether the NotificationIRP (3GPP TS 32.30x \[6\]) is shared or not is a
vendor-specific design choice.

It is noted that the AlarmIRP \[5\] may not be exclusively used by the
PMIRP. Its AlarmList may contain non-PM related alarms, for example.
Such usage of AlarmIRP \[5\] is a vendor-specific design choice.

It is also noted that the FTIRP (3GPP TS 32.341 \[7\]) may or may not be
exclusively used by the PMIRP.

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                                                                 
  **Date**             **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                                                                                                  **Old**   **New**
  Sep 2003             S\_21        SP-030432      001      \--       Expansion of the requirements for threshold alarms on bounded variables                                              6.0.0     6.1.0
  Dec 2003             S\_22        SP-030649      002      \--       Add PM IRP compliance clause                                                                                         6.1.0     6.2.0
  Jun 2004             S\_24        SP-040271      003                Clarify threshold alarm trigger condition -- Align with 32.401 and ITU-T Q.822                                       6.2.0     6.3.0
  Jun 2007             SA\_36       \--            \--      \--       Automatic upgrade to Rel-7 (no CR) at freeze of Rel-7. Deleted reference to CMIP SS, discontinued from R7 onwards.   6.3.0     7.0.0
  Mar 2009             SA\_43       SP-090207      004      \--       Include reference to SOAP Solution Set specification                                                                 7.0.0     8.0.0
  Dec 2009             \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-9 version (MCC)                                                                                        8.0.0     9.0.0
  2011-03              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)                                                                                       9.0.0     10.0.0
  2012-09              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-11 version (MCC)                                                                                       10.0.0    **11.0.0**
  2014-10              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)                                                                                       11.0.0    **12.0.0**
  2016-01              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)                                                                                       12.0.0    **13.0.0**
  2017-04              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-14 version (MCC)                                                                                       13.0.0    **14.0.0**
  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ------------

  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                           
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**              **New version**
  2018-03              SA\#79        SP-180069   0005     1         F         Replacement of 3G term           14.1.0
  2018-06              \-            \-          \-       \-        \-        Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)   **15.0.0**
  2020-07              \-            \-          \-       \-        \-        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)   **16.0.0**
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------- -----------------
