![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="1.4201388888888888in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#abbreviations)

[5](#kpi-definitions-template)

[6](#epc-kpi-definitions)

[6](#accessibility-kpi)

[6](#eps-attach-success-rate)

[6](#dedicated-eps-bearer-creation-success-rate)

[7](#dedicated-bearer-set-up-time-by-mme-mean)

[7](#service-request-success-rate)

[8](#mobility-kpi)

[8](#inter-rat-outgoing-handover-success-rate-eps-gsm)

[8](#inter-rat-outgoing-handover-success-rate-eps-umts)

[9](#inter-rat-outgoing-handover-success-rate-eps-cdma2000)

[9](#inter-rat-incoming-handover-success-rate-gsm-eps)

[10](#inter-rat-incoming-handover-success-rate-umts--eps)

[10](#inter-rat-incoming-handover-success-rate-cdma2000-eps)

[11](#tracking-area-update-success-rate)

[12](#utilization-kpi)

[12](#mean-active-dedicated-eps-bearer-utilization)

[13](#annex-a-informative-use-case-for-kpis)

[13](#a.1-use-case-for-eps-attach-success-rate-related-kpi)

[13](#a.2-use-case-for-inter-rat-handover-related-kpis)

[13](#a.3-use-case-for-mean-active-dedicated-eps-bearer-utilization-related-kpi)

[13](#a.4-use-case-for-dedicated-eps-bearer-creation-success-rate-related-kpi)

[13](#a.5-use-case-for-mean-dedicated-bearer-set-up-time-by-mme-related-kpi)

[13](#a.6-use-case-for-service-request-success-rate-related-kpi)

[14](#a.7-use-case-for-tracking-area-update-success-rate-related-kpi)

[15](#annex-b-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Abbreviations 4 KPI definitions template 5 EPC KPI definitions 5.1
Accessibility KPI 5.1.1 EPS Attach Success Rate 5.1.2 Dedicated EPS
Bearer Creation Success Rate 5.1.3 Dedicated Bearer Set-up Time by MME
(Mean) 5.1.4 Service Request Success Rate 5.2 Mobility KPI 5.2.1
Inter-RAT Outgoing Handover Success Rate (EPS-\>GSM) 5.2.2 Inter-RAT
Outgoing Handover Success Rate (EPS-\>UMTS) 5.2.3 Inter-RAT Outgoing
Handover Success Rate (EPS-\>CDMA2000) 5.2.4 Inter-RAT Incoming Handover
Success Rate (GSM-\>EPS) 5.2.5 Inter-RAT Incoming Handover Success Rate
(UMTS -\>EPS) 5.2.6 Inter-RAT Incoming Handover Success Rate
(CDMA2000-\>EPS) 5.2.7 Tracking Area Update Success Rate 5.3 Utilization
KPI 5.3.1 Mean Active Dedicated EPS Bearer Utilization Annex A
(informative): Use case for KPIs A.1 Use case for EPS attach success
rate related KPI A.2 Use case for inter-RAT handover related KPIs A.3
Use case for mean active dedicated EPS bearer utilization related KPI
A.4 Use case for dedicated EPS bearer creation success rate related KPI
A.5 Use case for mean dedicated bearer set-up time by MME related KPI
A.6 Use case for service request success rate related KPI A.7 Use case
for tracking area update success rate related KPI Annex B (informative):
Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for the
EPC.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or nonâ€‘specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 32.426: \"Telecommunication management; Performance
Management (PM); Performance measurements Evolved Packet Core (EPC)
network\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 32.410: \"Telecommunication management; Key Performance
Indicators (KPI) for UMTS and GSM\".

3 Abbreviations
===============

For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations
apply:

EPC Evolved Packet Core network

4 KPI definitions template
==========================

KPI definitions template refers to 3GPP TS 32.410 \[3\].

5 EPC KPI definitions
=====================

5.1 Accessibility KPI
---------------------

### 5.1.1 EPS Attach Success Rate

a)  EPS attach success rate

b)  This KPI describes the ratio of the number of successfully performed
    EPS attach procedures to the number of attempted EPS attach
    procedures for EPC network and is used to evaluate accessibility
    provided by EPS and network performance.

c)  This KPI is obtained by successful EPS attach procedures divided by
    attempted EPS attach procedures.

d)  

e)  MM.EpsAttachAtt.*Type*\
    MM.EpsAttachSucc.*Type*\
    Note: **above measurements with subcounter .*Type* should be defined
    in** 3GPP TS 32.426 \[2\].

f)  EPC

g)  Accessibility

h)  Percentage

i)  RATIO

### 5.1.2 Dedicated EPS Bearer Creation Success Rate

a)  Dedicated EPS bearer creation success rate.

b)  This KPI describes the ratio of the number of successfully performed
    dedicated EPS bearer creation procedures by PGW to the number of
    attempted dedicated EPS bearer creation procedures by PGW and is
    used to evaluate service availability provided by EPS and network
    performance.

c)  This KPI is obtained by successful dedicated EPS bearer creation
    procedures divided by attempted dedicated EPS bearer creation
    procedures.

d)  

e)  SM.CreationPGWInitBearerAtt\
    SM.CreatationPGWInitBearerSucc\
    **(See in** 3GPP TS 32.426 \[2\])

f)  EPC

g)  Accessibility

h)  Percentage

i)  RATIO

### 5.1.3 Dedicated Bearer Set-up Time by MME (Mean)

a)  Mean dedicated bearer set-up time by MME

b)  This KPI describes the valid time per dedicated bearer set-up
    procedure by MME and is used to evaluate service accessibility
    provided by EPS and network performance.

c)  This KPI is obtained by the valid time per dedicated bearer set-up
    procedure by MME

d)  DBSTM= SM.EstabActDedicatedEpsBearerTimeMean

e)  SM.EstabActDedicatedEpsBearerTimeMean **(See in** 3GPP TS 32.426
    \[2\]).

f)  EPC

g)  Accessibility

h)  Second

i)  MEAN

### 5.1.4 Service Request Success Rate

a)  Service request success rate.

b)  This KPI describes the ratio of the number of successfully performed
    service request procedures by UE to the number of attempted service
    request procedures by UE and is used to evaluate service
    accessibility provided by EPS and network performance.

c)  This KPI is obtained by successful service request procedures
    divided by attempted service request procedures.

d)  

e)  SM.EpsServiceReqAtt\
    SM.EpsServiceReqSucc\
    **(See in** 3GPP TS 32.426 \[2\])

f)  EPC

g)  Accessibility

h)  Percentage

i)  RATIO

5.2 Mobility KPI
----------------

### 5.2.1 Inter-RAT Outgoing Handover Success Rate (EPS-\>GSM)

a)  Inter-RAT outgoing handover success rate (EPS-\>GSM)

b)  This KPI describes the ratio of the number of successfully performed
    outgoing handover procedures to the number of attempted outgoing
    handover procedures to evaluate inter RAT outgoing handover
    performance.

c)  This KPI is obtained by the number of successful outgoing handover
    procedures divided by total number of attempted outgoing handover
    procedures from EPS to GSM network.

d)  

e)  IRATHO.OutMMEAtt.G\
    IRATHO.OutMMESucc.G\
    **(See in** 3GPP TS 32.426 \[2\])

f)  EPC

g)  Mobility

h)  Percentage

i)  RATIO

### 5.2.2 Inter-RAT Outgoing Handover Success Rate (EPS-\>UMTS)

a)  Inter-RAT outgoing handover success rate (EPS-\>UMTS)

b)  This KPI describes the ratio of the number of successfully performed
    outgoing handover procedures to the number of attempted outgoing
    handover procedures to evaluate inter RAT outgoing handover
    performance.

c)  This KPI is obtained by the number of successful outgoing handover
    procedures divided by total number of attempted outgoing handover
    procedures from EPS to UMTS network.

d)  

e)  IRATHO.OutMMEAtt.U\
    IRATHO.OutMMESucc.U\
    **(See in** 3GPP TS 32.426 \[2\])

f)  EPC

g)  Mobility

h)  Percentage

i)  RATIO

### 5.2.3 Inter-RAT Outgoing Handover Success Rate (EPS-\>CDMA2000)

a)  Inter-RAT outgoing handover success rate (EPS-\>CDMA2000)

b)  This KPI describes the ratio of the number of successfully performed
    outgoing handover procedures to the number of attempted outgoing
    handover procedures to evaluate inter RAT outgoing handover
    performance.

c)  This KPI is obtained by the number of successful outgoing handover
    procedures divided by total number of attempted outgoing handover
    procedures from EPS to CDMA2000 network.

d)  

e)  IRATHO.OutMMEAtt.C\
    IRATHO.OutMMESucc.C\
    **(See in** 3GPP TS 32.426 \[2\])

f)  EPC

g)  Mobility

h)  Percentage

i)  RATIO

### 5.2.4 Inter-RAT Incoming Handover Success Rate (GSM-\>EPS)

a)  Inter-RAT incoming handover success rate (GSM-\>EPS)

b)  This KPI describes the ratio of the number of successfully performed
    incoming handover procedures to the number of attempted incoming
    handover procedures to evaluate inter RAT incoming handover
    performance.

c)  This KPI is obtained by total number of successful incoming handover
    procedures divided by total number of attempted incoming handover
    procedures from GSM network to EPS

d)  

e)  IRATHO.IncMMEAtt.G\
    IRATHO.IncMMESucc.G\
    **(See in** 3GPP TS 32.426 \[2\])

f)  EPC

g)  Mobility

h)  Percentage

i)  RATIO

### 5.2.5 Inter-RAT Incoming Handover Success Rate (UMTS -\>EPS)

a)  Inter-RAT incoming handover success rate (UMTS -\>EPS)

b)  This KPI describes the ratio of the number of successfully performed
    incoming handover procedures to the number of attempted incoming
    handover procedures to evaluate inter RAT incoming handover
    performance.

c)  This KPI is obtained by total number of successful incoming handover
    procedures divided by total number of attempted incoming handover
    procedures from UMTS network to EPS

d)  

e)  IRATHO.IncMMEAtt.U\
    IRATHO.IncMMESucc.U\
    **(See in** 3GPP TS 32.426 \[2\])

f)  EPC

g)  Mobility

h)  Percentage

i)  RATIO

### 5.2.6 Inter-RAT Incoming Handover Success Rate (CDMA2000-\>EPS)

a)  Inter-RAT incoming handover success rate (CDMA2000-\>EPS)

b)  This KPI describes the ratio of the number of successfully performed
    incoming handover procedures to the number of attempted incoming
    handover procedures to evaluate inter RAT incoming handover
    performance.

c)  This KPI is obtained by total number of successful incoming handover
    procedures divided by total number of attempted incoming handover
    procedures from CDMA2000 network to EPS

d)  

e)  IRATHO.IncMMEAtt.C\
    IRATHO.IncMMESucc.C\
    **(See in** 3GPP TS 32.426 \[2\])

f)  EPC

g)  Mobility

h)  Percentage

i)  RATIO

### 5.2.7 Tracking Area Update Success Rate

a)  Tracking area update success rate.

b)  This KPI describes the ratio of the number of successfully performed
    tracking area update procedures to the number of attempted tracking
    area update procedures and is used to evaluate mobility provided by
    EPS and network performance.

c)  This KPI is obtained by successful tracking area update procedures
    divided by attempted tracking area update procedures.

d)  

e)  MM.TauIntraSgwAtt\
    MM.TauInterSgwAtt\
    MM.TauIntraSgwSucc\
    MM.TauInterSgwSucc\
    **(See in** 3GPP TS 32.426 \[2\])

f)  EPC

g)  Mobility

h)  Percentage

i)  RATIO

5.3 Utilization KPI
-------------------

### 5.3.1 Mean Active Dedicated EPS Bearer Utilization

a)  Mean active dedicated EPS bearer utilization

b)  This KPI describes the ratio of the mean number of active dedicated
    EPS bearer to the maximum number of active dedicated EPS bearers
    provided by EPC network, and it is used to evaluate utilization
    performance of EPC network.

c)  This KPI is obtained by the mean number of dedicated EPS bearers in
    active mode divided by the system capacity.

d)  

e)  SM.MeanNbrActDedicatedBearer **(See in** 3GPP TS 32.426 \[2\])\
    Capacity indicates maximum number of active dedicated EPS bearers
    provided by EPC node.

Editor notes: Capacity definition is FFS.

f)  EPC

g)  Utilization

h)  Percentage

i)  RATIO

######## Annex A (informative): Use case for KPIs

A.1 Use case for EPS attach success rate related KPI
----------------------------------------------------

It is necessary to evaluate accessibility performance provided by EPS.
EPS attachment for a UE/user is important when they access network. If
users or subscribers cannot attach to the PS network of EPS, they cannot
access EPS. This KPI is focusing on network and user view.

A.2 Use case for inter-RAT handover related KPIs
------------------------------------------------

Inter RAT handover success rate is used to evaluate stability and
reliability performance of handover between EPS and GSM or UMTS or
CDMA2000. If the KPI value is too low, call drop rate may be increased.
This KPI is focusing on network and user view.

A.3 Use case for mean active dedicated EPS bearer utilization related KPI
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mean active dedicated EPS bearer utilization can be used to indicate
system load level. If the value of this KPI is very high, it indicates
system capacity is not enough, and needs to be increased. So it is an
important indicator for EPC network optimization.

This KPI is focusing on network view.

A.4 Use case for dedicated EPS bearer creation success rate related KPI
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

If PGW can not create the dedicated bearer, then users cannot use the
services provided by EPS successfully, which will influence the users'
satisfactory to the network. So it is necessary to define dedicated EPS
bearer creation success rate to evaluate accessibility performance
provided by EPS and network performance, user behaviour is included.

This KPI is focusing on network and user view.

A.5 Use case for mean dedicated bearer set-up time by MME related KPI
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Mean dedicated bearer set-up time by MME can be used to describe the
duration between a UE requests a service and the service is successfully
established, it can reflect the user satisfactory of high data rate
service and network performance of dedicated bearer set-up. So it is
useful to evaluate accessibility performance provided by EPS and network
performance.

This KPI is focusing on network and user view.

A.6 Use case for service request success rate related KPI
---------------------------------------------------------

Service Request procedure is one of the important NAS procedures which
is triggered by the UE when it is in idle state and has some data to
send or receive (after the paging procedure). If the service request
success rate is lower than predefined threshold, the user experience of
sending / receiving the data will be affected. So it is necessary to
define service request success rate, the user behaviour is included.

This KPI is focusing on network and user view.

A.7 Use case for tracking area update success rate related KPI
--------------------------------------------------------------

Tracking area update success rate is useful to evaluate mobility
provided by EPS. If a user fails to update the tracking area, the user
may not be paged by network because the target tracking area can not be
attached. If the tracking area update success rate is lower than a
predefined threshold, the tracking areas maybe need to be re-planed. So
it is necessary to define the tracking area update success rate, the
user behaviour is included.

This KPI is focusing on network and user view.

######## Annex B (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- -------------------------------------------------- --------- ------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                               
  **Date**             **TSGÂ \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                                **Old**   **New**
  Dec 2010             SP-50        SP-100766                         Submitted to SA\#50 for Information                0.4.1     1.0.0
  Mar 2011             SP-51        SP-110117                         Submitted to SA\#50 for Approval                   1.1.0     2.0.0
  Mar 2011             \--          \--            \--      \--       Publication                                        2.0.0     10.0.0
  2012-09              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-11 version (MCC)                     10.0.0    **11.0.0**
  2014-10              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)                     11.0.0    **12.0.0**
  2016-01              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)                     12.0.0    **13.0.0**
  2017-04              SA\#75       \-             \-       \-        Promotion to Release 14 without technical change   13.0.0    **14.0.0**
  2018-06              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)                     14.0.0    **15.0.0**
  2020-07              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)                     15.0.0    **16.0.0**
  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- -------------------------------------------------- --------- ------------
