![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="1.4201388888888888in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#abbreviations)

[5](#kpi-definitions-template)

[6](#ims-kpi-definitions)

[6](#accessibility-kpi)

[6](#initial-registration-success-rate-of-s-cscf)

[6](#session-setup-time-mean)

[6](#session-establishment-success-rate)

[7](#third-party-registration-success-rate)

[7](#re-registration-success-rate-of-s-cscf)

[8](#session-setup-time-originated-from-ims-mean)

[8](#session-setup-time-originated-from-cs-mean)

[8](#immediate-messaging-success-rate)

[9](#session-establishment-network-success-rate)

[10](#retainability-kpi)

[10](#call-drop-rate-of-ims-sessions)

[10](#utilization-kpi)

[10](#mean-session-utilization)

[12](#annex-a-informative-use-case-for-kpis)

[12](#a.1-use-case-for-initial-registration-success-rate-of-s-cscf-related-kpi)

[12](#a.2-use-case-for-session-setup-time-mean-related-kpi)

[12](#a.3-use-case-for-session-establishment-success-rate-related-kpi)

[12](#a.4-use-case-for-third-party-registration-success-rate-related-kpi)

[12](#a.5-use-case-for-re-registration-success-rate-of-s-cscf-related-kpi)

[12](#a.6-use-case-for-call-drop-rate-of-ims-sessions-related-kpi)

[13](#a.7-use-case-for-session-set-up-time-originated-from-cs-and-ims-related-kpi)

[13](#a.8-use-case-for-mean-session-utilization-related-kpi)

[13](#a.9-use-case-for-immediate-messaging-success-rate-related-kpi)

[13](#a.10-use-case-of-the-session-establishment-network-success-rate-related-kpi)

[14](#annex-b-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Abbreviations 4 KPI definitions template 5 IMS KPI definitions 5.1
Accessibility KPI 5.1.1 Initial Registration Success Rate of S-CSCF
5.1.2 Session Setup Time (Mean) 5.1.3 Session Establishment Success Rate
5.1.4 Third Party Registration Success Rate 5.1.5 Re-registration
Success Rate of S-CSCF 5.1.6 Session Setup Time Originated from IMS
(Mean) 5.1.7 Session Setup Time Originated from CS (Mean) 5.1.8
Immediate Messaging Success Rate 5.1.9 Session Establishment Network
Success Rate 5.2 Retainability KPI 5.2.1 Call Drop Rate of IMS Sessions
5.3 Utilization KPI 5.3.1 Mean Session Utilization Annex A
(informative): Use case for KPIs A.1 Use case for initial registration
success rate of S-CSCF related KPI A.2 Use case for session setup time
(mean) related KPI A.3 Use case for session establishment success rate
related KPI A.4 Use case for third party registration success rate
related KPI A.5 Use case for re-registration success rate of S-CSCF
related KPI A.6 Use case for call drop rate of IMS sessions related KPI
A.7 Use case for session set-up time originated from CS and IMS related
KPI A.8 Use case for mean session utilization related KPI A.9 Use case
for immediate messaging success rate related KPI A.10 Use case of the
session establishment network success rate related KPI Annex B
(informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for the
IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS).

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 32.409: \"Telecommunication management; Performance
Management (PM); Performance measurements - IP Multimedia Subsystem
(IMS)\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 32.410: \"Telecommunication management; Key Performance
Indicators (KPI) for UMTS and GSM\".

3 Abbreviations
===============

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
TS 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply.

IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem

KPI Key Performance Indicator

4 KPI definitions template
==========================

KPI definitions template refers to 3GPP TS 32.410 \[3\].

5 IMS KPI definitions
=====================

5.1 Accessibility KPI
---------------------

### 5.1.1 Initial Registration Success Rate of S-CSCF

a)  Initial registration success rate of S-CSCF

b)  This KPI describes the ratio of the number of successfully performed
    initial registration procedures of S-CSCF to the number of attempted
    initial registration procedures of S-CSCF for IMS network and is
    used to evaluate accessibility performance provided by IMS and
    network performance.

c)  This KPI is obtained by successful initial registration procedures
    of S-CSCF divided by attempted initial registration procedures of
    S-CSCF.

d)  

e)  UR.AttInitReg\
    UR.SuccInitReg\
    **(See in** 3GPP TS 32.409 \[2\])

f)  IMS

g)  Accessibility

h)  Percentage

i)  RATIO

### 5.1.2 Session Setup Time (Mean)

a)  Session setup time (Mean)

b)  This KPI provides the mean setup time of the sessions.

c)  This KPI is obtained by performance measurement: successful session
    establishment time (Mean).

d)  SSTOI= SC.SessionEstabTimeMean.MediaName

e)  SC.SessionEstabTimeMean.MediaName (See **in** 3GPP TS 32.409 \[2\]).

f)  IMS

g)  Accessibility

h)  milliseconds

i)  MEAN

### 5.1.3 Session Establishment Success Rate

a)  Session Establishment Success Rate

b)  This KPI describes the ratio of the number of successful originating
    session establishment to the number of attempted originating session
    establishment and the ratio of the number of successful terminating
    session establishment to the number of attempted terminating session
    establishment for IMS network and is used to evaluate accessibility
    performance provided by IMS and network performance.\
    If it is calculated by I-CSCF, it includes the successful rate of
    terminating session establishment of the own subscribers and the
    outbound roamers.\
    If it is calculated by P-CSCF, it includes the successful rate of
    terminating session establishment of the own subscribers and the
    inbound roamers.

c)  This KPI is obtained by the number of successful session
    establishments divided by the number of attempted session
    establishments for originating side and terminating side
    respectively for IMS.

d)  

e)  SC.AttSessionOrig\
    SC.SuccSessionOrig.*type* type: SIP\_180, SIP\_200\_OK.\
    SC.AttSessionTerm\
    SC.SuccSessionTerm.*type* type: SIP\_180, SIP\_200\_OK.\
    **(See in** 3GPP TS 32.409 \[2\])

f)  IMS

g)  Accessibility

h)  Percentage

i)  RATIO

### 5.1.4 Third Party Registration Success Rate 

a)  Third party registration success rate

b)  This KPI describes the ratio of the number of successfully performed
    third party registration procedures to the number of attempted third
    party registration procedures for IMS network and is used to
    evaluate accessibility performance provided by IMS and network
    performance.

c)  This KPI is obtained by successful third party registration
    procedures divided by attempted third party registration procedures.

d)  

e)  UR.Att3rdPartyReg\
    UR.Succ3rdPartyReg **(See in** 3GPP TS 32.409 \[2\])

f)  IMS

g)  Accessibility

h)  Percentage

i)  RATIO

### 5.1.5 Re-registration Success Rate of S-CSCF

a)  Re-registration success rate of S-CSCF

b)  This KPI describes the ratio of the number of successfully performed
    re-registration procedures of S-CSCF to the number of attempted
    re-registration procedures of S-CSCF for IMS network and is used to
    evaluate accessibility performance provided by IMS and network
    performance.

c)  This KPI is obtained by successful re-registration procedures of
    S-CSCF divided by attempted re-registration procedures of S-CSCF.

d)  

e)  UR.AttReReg\
    UR.SuccReReg **(See in** 3GPP TS 32.409 \[2\])

f)  IMS

g)  Accessibility

h)  Percentage

i)  RATIO

### 5.1.6 Session Setup Time Originated from IMS (Mean)

a)  Session setup time originated from IMS (Mean)

b)  This KPI provides the mean setup time of the successful IM CN
    subsystem originated calls.

c)  This KPI is obtained by performance measurement: call set-up time
    (mean), IM CN originated

d)  MSSTOI= CC.SetupTimeImOrigMean.

e)  CC.SetupTimeImOrigMean **(See in** 3GPP TS 32.409 \[2\]).

f)  IMS

g)  Accessibility

h)  Millisecond

i)  MEAN

### 5.1.7 Session Setup Time Originated from CS (Mean)

a)  Session setup time originated from CS (Mean)

b)  This KPI provides the mean setup time of the successful CS
    **network** originated calls.

c)  This KPI is obtained by performance measurement: call set-up time
    (Mean), CS network originated

d)  MSSTOC= CC.SetupTimeCsOrigMean.

e)  CC.SetupTimeCsOrigMean. **(See in** 3GPP TS 32.409 \[2\]).

f)  IMS

g)  Accessibility

h)  Millisecond

i)  MEAN

### 5.1.8 Immediate Messaging Success Rate

a)  Immediate messaging success rate

b)  This KPI describes the ratio of the number of successful immediate
    messaging procedures to the number of attempted immediate messaging
    procedures for IMS network and is used to evaluate accessibility
    performance provided by IMS and network performance.

c)  This KPI is obtained by the number of successful immediate messaging
    procedures divided by the number of attempted immediate messaging
    procedures.

d)  

e)  SC.AttImMsg\
    SC.SuccImMsg\
    **(See in** 3GPP TS 32.409 \[2\])

f)  IMS

g)  Accessibility

h)  Percentage

i)  RATIO

### 5.1.9 Session Establishment Network Success Rate

a)  Session Establishment Network Success Rate

b)  This KPI describes the ratio of the sum of number of successful
    session establishment and the number of failed session establishment
    due to user's behaviour factors to the number of attempted session
    establishment distinguished by originating side and terminating side
    for IMS network and is used to evaluate accessibility performance
    provided by IMS network.\
    If it is calculated by I-CSCF, it includes the successful rate of
    terminating session establishment of the own subscribers and the
    outbound roamers.\
    If it is calculated by P-CSCF, it includes the successful rate of
    terminating session establishment of the own subscribers and the
    inbound roamers.

c)  This KPI is obtained by the sum of the number of successful session
    establishments and the number of failed session establishment due to
    user behaviour factors divided by the number of attempted session
    establishments for originating side and terminating side
    respectively for IMS.

d)  

SENSR\_Orig =

SENSR\_Term =

e\) SC.AttSessionOrig

SC.SuccSessionOrig.*sum*

SC.RelBeforeRingOrig

SC.FailSessionOrig.486

SC.FailSessionOrig.600

SC.FailSessionOrig.404

SC.FailSessionOrig.484

SC.AttSessionTerm

SC.SuccSessionTerm.*sum*

SC.RelBeforeRingTerm

SC.FailSessionTerm.486

SC.FailSessionTerm.600

SC.FailSessionTerm.404

SC.FailSessionTerm.484

(See in 3GPP TS 32.409 \[2\])

f\) IMS

g\) Accessibility

h\) Percentage

i\) RATIO

5.2 Retainability KPI
---------------------

### 5.2.1 Call Drop Rate of IMS Sessions

a)  Call drop rate of IMS sessions

b)  **This KPI describes the ratio of number of** dropped sessions **to
    the** number of successful session establishments **and is used to**
    evaluate retainability for IMS**.**

c)  **This KPI is obtained by the number of** dropped sessions **divided
    by the** number of successful session establishments**.**

d)  

e)  SC.DroppedSession\
    SC.SuccSession.*type* type: SIP\_180, SIP\_200\_OK.\
    **(See in** 3GPP TS 32.409 \[2\])

f)  IMS

g)  Retainability

h)  Percentage

i)  RATIO

5.3 Utilization KPI
-------------------

### 5.3.1 Mean Session Utilization

a)  Mean simultaneous online and answered sessions utilization

b)  This KPI describes the ratio of the mean number of simultaneous
    online and answered sessions to the maximum number of sessions
    provided by IMS network, and it is used to evaluate utilization
    performance of IMS network.

c)  This KPI is obtained by the mean number of simultaneous online and
    answered sessions divided by the system capacity.

d)  

e)  SC.NbrSimulAnsSessionMean **(See in** 3GPP TS 32.409 \[2\])\
    Capacity indicates maximum number of sessions provided by IMS node.

> Editor notes: Capacity definition is FFS.

f)  IMS

g)  Utilization

h)  Percentage

i)  RATIO

######## Annex A (informative): Use case for KPIs

A.1 Use case for initial registration success rate of S-CSCF related KPI
------------------------------------------------------------------------

It is useful to evaluate accessibility performance provided by IMS and
network performance. This KPI is helpful to learn the user registration
status. This KPI is focusing on network and user view.

A.2 Use case for session setup time (mean) related KPI
------------------------------------------------------

It is necessary to evaluate accessibility performance provided by IMS
and network performance. This KPI can influence the users' satisfaction
directly and reflect network transaction performance. This KPI is
focusing on network and user view.

A.3 Use case for session establishment success rate related KPI
---------------------------------------------------------------

It is necessary to evaluate the session establishment performance
provided by IMS including user behaviour factors. This KPI is focusing
on network and user view. It is necessary to define session
establishment success rate (SESR) with differentiating originating and
terminating, otherwise when the operator wants to consider SESR from
whole IMS network perspective, the value of SESR will be much bigger
than real situation due to one success session being counted twice (both
at originating side and terminating side).

A.4 Use case for third party registration success rate related KPI
------------------------------------------------------------------

It is useful to evaluate accessibility performance provided by IMS and
network performance. Third Party Registration is the process of S-CSCF
to inform the Application Server (AS) about the user's registration
status and it is a necessary procedure to perform services involving AS.
This KPI (Third Party Registration Success Rate) is defined to fulfil
the need of the operator to evaluate the service and network
accessibility performance. This KPI is focusing on network and user
view.

A.5 Use case for re-registration success rate of S-CSCF related KPI
-------------------------------------------------------------------

Periodic application level re-registration is initiated by the UE either
to refresh an existing registration or in response to a change in the
registration status of the UE. A re-registration procedure can also be
initiated when the capabilities of the UE have changed or the IP CAN has
changed \[3GPP TS 23.228\]. This KPI is useful for evaluate
accessibility of the IMS network, including the user behaviour factors.
This KPI is helpful to learn the user's re-registration status. This KPI
is focusing on network and user view.

A.6 Use case for call drop rate of IMS sessions related KPI
-----------------------------------------------------------

It is necessary to evaluate retainability performance of IMS including
user causes, as well as IMS reliability and stability should be
reflected. This KPI is focusing on network view.

A.7 Use case for session set-up time originated from CS and IMS related KPI
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

When IMS operator provides transit functionality to other network
operators, in this case the operator is serving as an IMS session based
routing backbone for a PSTN operator or another IP network and provides
connectivity to both PSTN and IP endpoints. So it is necessary to define
session set-up time originated from CS and IMS KPI to indicate
accessibility performance of IMS network for other networks, also it is
useful for other network operators to do trouble shooting.

This KPI is focusing on network and user view.

A.8 Use case for mean session utilization related KPI
-----------------------------------------------------

The mean number of simultaneous online and answered sessions together
with maximum number of sessions provided by IMS network can reflect
system resource utilization. If the value of this KPI is very high, it
indicates system capacity is not enough, and needs to be increased.

This KPI is focusing on network view.

A.9 Use case for immediate messaging success rate related KPI
-------------------------------------------------------------

With Immediate messaging the sender expects immediate message delivery
in what is perceived as real time. Immediate messaging allows the
exchange of any type of multimedia content, now the immediate messaging
services are widely used both in the wired and wireless environment. If
the immediate messaging success rate is very low, it will impact on the
satisfactory of user and service providers. So it is necessary to
evaluate immediate messaging success rate performance provided by IMS.

This KPI is focusing on network and user view.

A.10 Use case of the session establishment network success rate related KPI
===========================================================================

Sometimes unsuccessful session establishment is caused by user\'s own
behaviour which has nothing to do with network performance. Therefore
the user behaviour factors should be excluded to evaluate the real
network session establishment success rate. This KPI is focusing on
network view different from the KPI, session establishment success rate.
Therefore the measurements on the number of release before ringing, UE
not found, UE address incomplete and UE busy should be excluded from the
failed measurements. This KPI is helpful to evaluate the real network
session establishment success rate.

######## Annex B (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                             
  **Date**             **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                                              **Old**   **New**
  Dec 2010             SP-50        SP-100765                         Submitted to SA\#50 for Information                              0.4.1     1.0.0
  Mar 2011             SP-51        SP-110116      \--      \--       Submitted to SA\#51 for Approval                                 1.2.0     2.0.0
  Mar 2011             \--          \--            \--      \--       Publication                                                      2.0.0     10.0.0
  Dec 2011             SP-54        SP-110714      001      2         Add the session establishment network success rate related KPI   10.0.0    11.0.0
  2014-10              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)                                   11.0.0    **12.0.0**
  2016-01              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)                                   12.0.0    **13.0.0**
  2017-04              SA\#75       \-             \-       \-        Promotion to Release 14 without technical change                 13.0.0    **14.0.0**
  2018-06              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)                                   14.0.0    **15.0.0**
  2020-07              \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)                                   15.0.0    **16.0.0**
  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ------------
