![](media/image1.wmf){width="7.0875in" height="0.975in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[5](#foreword)

[6](#scope)

[6](#references)

[7](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[7](#definitions)

[7](#abbreviations)

[7](#characteristics-test-methods-and-quality-assessment)

[7](#environmental-conditions-for-a-car-type-handsfree-mobile-station)

[7](#data-available-on-real-use-environment)

[7](#reverberation-and-echo)

[8](#sources-and-types-of-noise.-level-and-spectra-of-the-noise)

[8](#noise-due-to-engine-tyres-and-moving-situations)

[13](#noise-due-to-equipment-inside-the-cars)

[14](#signal-to-noise-ratio-in-the-car-situation)

[15](#noise-and-echo)

[17](#environment-for-testing-handsfree-mobile-station)

[17](#classification-of-handsfree-mobile-terminals)

[17](#vehicle-simulator)

[17](#cost-estimation-for-a-vehicle-simulator-for-handsfree-testing)

[18](#advisory-text-for-installation-of-handsfree-ms-in-a-vehicle-environment)

[18](#test-environment)

[18](#anechoic-room)

[18](#real-use-situation-handsfree-in-a-real-car-or-in-a-car-simulator)

[19](#measurements-on-a-gsm-handsfree-telephone---influence-of-the-environment-and-the-test-conditions-on-frequency-responses-and-loudness-ratings)

[22](#delay-in-handsfree-terminals-implemented-with-signal-processing-techniques)

[22](#signal-processing-techniques-for-acoustic-echo-cancelling-and-noise-reduction)

[22](#examples-of-delays-due-to-signal-processing-techniques)

[22](#data-produced-by-matra-communication)

[23](#data-produced-by-ericsson)

[24](#speech-quality-assessment)

[24](#general---factors-affecting-the-speech-quality-of-the-gsm-system-and-derivatives)

[27](#main-assessment-criteria-for-handsfree-processing-used-in-gsm-mobile-environment)

[28](#evaluation-methodology-for-full-duplex-acoustic-echo-controllers-developed-within-the-freetel-esprit-project)

[28](#objective-evaluation-procedure)

[29](#objective-evaluation-methodology-of-aec-devices)

[32](#test-signals-used-from-the-freetel-esprit-database)

[32](#adapted-objective-evaluation-procedure-to-a-gsm-handsfree-mobile)

[32](#motivation-of-an-adapted-evaluation-procedure)

[33](#objective-evaluation-procedure-for-prototyping-the-gsm-handsfree-aec-algorithms)

[35](#proposed-objective-subjective-evaluation-procedure)

[35](#derived-evaluation-schemes-for-handsfree-mobile-telephones)

[38](#subjective-tests)

[38](#subjective-opinion-tests)

[38](#listening-opinion-tests)

[38](#conversation-opinion-tests)

[38](#proposed-test-method)

[39](#subjective-tests-extracted-from-ultimate-test-set)

[41](#annex-a-subjective-tests-from-uts)

[45](#annex-b-bibliography)

[45](#b.1-references-of-td-presented-in-smg2ad-hoc-03.50-meetings)

[45](#b.2-references-from-subclause-4.1)

[46](#b.3-references-from-subclause-4.2.1)

[46](#b.4-references-from-subclause-4.3.1)

[46](#b.5-references-from-subclause-4.3.3)

[47](#annex-c-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations 4
Characteristics, test methods and quality assessment 4.1 Environmental
conditions for a car type handsfree Mobile Station 4.1.1 Data available
on real use environment 4.1.1.1 Reverberation and echo 4.1.1.2 Sources
and types of noise. Level and Spectra of the noise 4.1.1.2.1 Noise due
to engine, tyres and moving situations 4.1.1.2.2 Noise due to equipment
inside the cars 4.1.1.2.3 Signal to noise ratio in the car situation
4.1.1.3 Noise and echo 4.1.2 Environment for testing handsfree mobile
station 4.1.2.1 Classification of handsfree mobile terminals 4.1.2.2
Vehicle simulator 4.1.2.2.1 Cost estimation for a vehicle simulator for
handsfree testing 4.1.2.3 Advisory text for installation of handsfree MS
in a vehicle environment 4.1.2.4 Test environment 4.1.2.4.1 Anechoic
room 4.1.2.4.2 \" Real use \" situation (Handsfree in a real car or in a
car simulator) 4.1.3 Measurements on a GSM handsfree telephone -
Influence of the environment and the test conditions on frequency
responses and loudness ratings 4.2 Delay in handsfree terminals
implemented with signal processing techniques 4.2.1 Signal processing
techniques for acoustic echo cancelling and noise reduction 4.2.2
Examples of delays due to signal processing techniques 4.2.2.1 Data
produced by Matra Communication 4.2.2.2 Data produced by Ericsson 4.3
Speech quality assessment 4.3.1 General - Factors affecting the speech
quality of the GSM system and derivatives 4.3.2 Main Assessment Criteria
for Handsfree processing used in GSM mobile environment 4.3.3 Evaluation
Methodology for Full-Duplex Acoustic Echo Controllers developed within
the FREETEL-Esprit project 4.3.3.1 Objective Evaluation procedure
4.3.3.1.1 Objective Evaluation methodology of AEC devices 4.3.3.1.2 Test
Signals used from the FREETEL-Esprit Database 4.3.3.2 Adapted objective
evaluation procedure to a GSM Handsfree mobile 4.3.3.2.1 Motivation of
an adapted evaluation procedure 4.3.3.2.2 Objective evaluation procedure
for prototyping the GSM Handsfree AEC algorithms 4.3.3.2.3 Proposed
Objective-Subjective Evaluation procedure 4.3.3.2.4 Derived Evaluation
schemes for Handsfree mobile telephones 4.3.4 Subjective tests 4.3.4.1
Subjective opinion tests 4.3.4.1.1 Listening opinion tests 4.3.4.1.2
Conversation Opinion Tests 4.3.4.1.3 Proposed test method 4.3.4.2
Subjective tests extracted from \"Ultimate test set\" Annex A:
Subjective Tests from UTS Annex B: Bibliography B.1 References of TD
presented in SMG2/ad hoc 03.50 meetings B.2 References from subclause
4.1 B.3 References from subclause 4.2.1 B.4 References from subclause
4.3.1 B.5 References from subclause 4.3.3 Annex C (informative): Change
history

Foreword
========

This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document gives some guidelines to implement test methods and
to evaluate the transmission quality of handsfree Mobile Stations (MSs).
The normative characteristics and test methods for handsfree Mobile
Stations (MSs are defined in GSM 03.50). The present document gives
additional data.

It includes summaries of texts or contributions presented and discussed
during the meetings of ad hoc group SMG2/03.50 on environmental
conditions, speech processing and quality assessment for handsfree
Mobile Station.

The items covered by this report are mainly.

\- Environmental conditions for handsfree Mobile Stations.

\- Speech processing techniques and consequences on delay.

\- Speech quality assessment for handsfree implementing acoustic echo
cancellation and noise reduction.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] I-ETS 300 245-3: \"Integrated Services Digital Network
(ISDN);Technical characteristics of telephony terminals; Part 3: Pulse
Code Modulation (PCM) A-law\".

\[2\] ITU-T Recommendation G.113: \"Transmission Impairments
Quantisation Distortion\".

\[3\] ITU-T Recommendation G.114: \"Transmission Impairments, Delay\".

\[4\] ITU-T Recommendation G.165: \"Performances of Network Echo
Cancellers\".

\[5\] ITU-T Recommendation G.167: \"Performance of acoustic echo control
devices\".

\[6\] ITU-T Recommendation G.711: \"64 kbit/s Pulse Code Modulation
(PCM)\".

\[7\] ITU-T Recommendation G.721: \"32 kbit/s Adaptive Differential
Pulse Code Modulation (ADPCM)\".

\[8\] ITU-T Recommendation G.728: \"16 kbit/s Low Delay CELP\".

\[9\] ITU-T Recommendation G.729: \"8 kbit/s ACELP\".

\[10\] ITU-T Recommendation G.731: \"Echo\".

\[11\] ITU-T Recommendation P.50: \"Artificial Voices\".

\[12\] ITU-T Recommendation P.58: \"Head and Torso Simulator (HATS) for
telephonometry\".

\[13\] ITU-T Recommendation P.340: \"Transmission Characteristics of
Handsfree Telephones\".

\[14\] ITU-T Handbook On Telephonometry, Geneva 1987.

\[15\] GSM 03.50: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase
2+); Transmission planning aspects of the speech service in the GSM
Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) system\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and
definitions apply:

**Terminal Coupling Loss (TCL):** frequency dependent coupling loss
between the receiving port and sending port of a terminal due to:

\- acoustical coupling at the user interface;

\- electrical coupling due to crosstalk in the handset cord or within
the electrical circuits;

\- seismic coupling through the mechanical parts of the terminal.

NOTE 1: The receiving port and the sending port of a digital voice
terminal is a 0 dBr point.

NOTE 2: The coupling at the user interface depends on the conditions of
use.

**Weighted Terminal Coupling Loss (TCLW):** weighted Terminal Coupling
Loss using the weighting of CCITT Recommendation G.122.

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations
apply:

HATS Head and Torso Simulator

MRP Mouth Reference Point

RLR Receive Loudness Rating

SLR Send Loudness Rating

TCL Terminal Coupling Loss

TCLw Weighted Terminal Coupling Loss

4 Characteristics, test methods and quality assessment
======================================================

4.1 Environmental conditions for a car type handsfree Mobile Station
--------------------------------------------------------------------

### 4.1.1 Data available on real use environment

#### 4.1.1.1 Reverberation and echo

a\) From Background acoustic noise reduction in mobile telephony (see
subclause B.2 reference \[1\]).

The reverberation times determined from the impulse response inside the
cabin are in the order of 25 ms.

b\) From Speech enhancement for mobile telephony (see subclause B.2
reference \[2\]).

The reverberation time, determined from the impulse response, is around
30ms (it is assumed that the long impulse of the source - a small
loudspeaker - may explain why this result is greater that value
determined by, reference \[1\] of subclause B.2.

c\) From Contribution à l\'amélioration des performances d\'un
radiotelephone mains-libres à commande vocale (see subclause B.2
reference \[3\]).

The reverberance, in this report, is not defined directly by the
reverberation time, but by the part of impulse response energy (from0 to
t), relative to total energy, as a time function.

Table 1

  ----------- ---------------- ----------------
  Time (ms)   Loss (dB). R25   Loss (dB). 505
  10          10.2             9.2
  20          22.5             20.2
  30          32.5             30.5
  ----------- ---------------- ----------------

#### 4.1.1.2 Sources and types of noise. Level and Spectra of the noise

##### 4.1.1.2.1 Noise due to engine, tyres and moving situations

a\) From Acoustic noise analysis and speech enhancement for mobile radio
applications (see subclause B.2 reference \[4\]).

\- Test conditions.

\- Car: Alfa Romeo Alfetta 200J.

\- Supercardioid directional microphones.

\- Microphone positions: 3 Measurement positions (Front seats, driver
and passenger head positions. Middle of rear seat, passenger head
position). In these 3 positions, the signals are almost the same.

\- Signal analysis: DFT analysis.

Table 2

  -------------------- ---------------------- ---------------------- ---------------
  Testing conditions   Vehicle speed (km/h)   Engine rate (r.p.m.)   Road pavement
  a                    0                      4000                   asphalt
  b                    100                    0                      asphalt
  -------------------- ---------------------- ---------------------- ---------------

\- Noise

\- in testing condition \" a \": a very high peak of energy appears
around 120 Hz, at the fundamental frequency of the four strokes four
cylinders engine noise. The noise power spectrum decreases hardly
between this frequency and 3 kHz.

\- in testing condition \" b \": (gear in neutral position, engine kept
off), the peak of power in low frequency region disappears and the noise
power between 1 kHz and 6 kHz increases considerably relative to
condition \" a \".

b\) From Background acoustic noise reduction in mobile telephony (see
subclause B.2 reference \[1\])

\- Test conditions.

Measurements were made in a typical mid-size North American car.

\- Noise spectrum. see figure 1.

Figure 1: Noise spectrum

The noise power spectrum inside the cabin is mainly located in very low
frequencies (below 250 Hz). Comparing the noise outside and inside the
cabin, it appears that the car acts as a low pass filter with cutoff
frequency around 250 Hz.

Between 250 Hz and about 1.3 kHz, the noise power decreases by about 20
dB.

Above 2 kHz the slope is about -6 dB/octave.

c\) From Speech enhancement for mobile telephony (see subclause B.2
reference \[2\]).

\- Test conditions

\- Vehicle: midsized car

\- Speed conditions: idle, 50 km/h, 100 km/h

\- Fan conditions: fan off, fan low, fan high

\- Roads are dry and relatively smooth.

\- Windows are closed.

\- The analysis bandwidth is limited to 4 kHz.

\- **Noise**. see figure 2.

![](media/image4.png){width="5.321527777777778in" height="3.4in"}

Figure 2: Noise power

With fan off, the maximum of energy is located in low frequencies (below
500 Hz), the peak in the spectrum increasing by about 10 dB from idle to
50 km/h or 100 km/h.

Increasing the car speed increases the noise energy, especially in
higher frequencies (more than 10 dB from 50 km/h to 100 km/h) .

At high speeds the road noise dominates, while at lower speeds the
contribution of the fan to the noise level may become important.

d\) From Contribution à l\'amélioration des performances d\'un
radiotelephone mains-libres à commande vocale (see subclause B.2
reference \[3\]).

\- Test conditions.

\- Cars: Renault 25 and Peugeot 505.

\- Omnidirectional microphone.

\- The mean value is calculated from about 10 measurements.

\- Noise.

\- Engine noise.

In general, from low frequencies to frequencies in the bandwidth 1 kHz -
1,5 kHz, the level of the spectral components of the engine noise (4
cylinders) decreases by 40 dB. see figure 3 (From Perulli).

![](media/image5.png){width="4.48125in" height="3.59375in"}

Figure 3: Level of the spectral components of the engine noise

Increasing the engine rate from 2500 r.p.m. to 4000 r.p.m. (that
corresponds to speeds about 120 km/h and 150 km/h, depending on the car)
increases the noise by about 10 dB.

\- Noise due to the engine and to the tyres.

Starting the car: engine noise is dominant.

Urban driving: the two noise sources are equivalent.

On fast roads, tyre noise is preponderant, mainly if the road is wet.

Above 1600 Hz, the type of road has low influence on the noise spectrum.

If the road is wet, above 1 kHz, the level increases relative the dry
road condition, and increases with the frequency.

**Supplementary data on the noise generated by the tyres**:

Influence of the granular type of the road (From Perulli)

Table 3

  ------------------ ------- ------- ------- -------
  Octave band (Hz)   \(1\)   \(2\)   \(3\)   \(4\)
  31.5               87.5    87      88      89
  63                 85      86      88      93.5
  125                72.5    74      76.5    84
  250                71      70      71.5    77.5
  500                68      62      64      64
  1k                 59      58.5    60.5    60
  2k                 49      48.5    49      47.5
  4k                 40      39      36      37.5
  8k                 22      26      23      23
  ------------------ ------- ------- ------- -------

For the conditions (1) to (4) the granular type of the road pavement
increases.

\- **Overall noise**

This report gives also results of spectra measured in one car (R25), for
two speeds and two types of road. The microphones are located in the
middle of the steering wheel and on the sun visor. See figures 4 and 5.

![](media/image6.png){width="3.202777777777778in"
height="2.222916666666667in"}![](media/image7.png){width="2.9381944444444446in"
height="2.2618055555555556in"}

Figure 4:

![](media/image8.png){width="3.421527777777778in"
height="2.576388888888889in"}

Figure 5:

e\) From On the influence of front end processing schemes on the GSM
codec behaviour in the context of handsfree radiotelephony (see
subclause B.2 reference \[5\]).

\- Test conditions,

\- Midsized cars,

\- Idle, 70, 100 and 120 km/h,

\- **Noise**

![](media/image10.png){width="5.172916666666667in"
height="3.7465277777777777in"}

Figure 6: Noise power spectral densities (-) smooth road 100 km/h (..)\
hard road 100 km/h (-.-) hard road 120 km/h

The noise is dominated by low frequency energy mainly concentrated below
500 Hz.

Between moving on the smooth road and on a hard road, the low frequency
energy increases by 12 dB (at a speed of 100 km/h).

The noise caused by the air hitting the windshield appears mainly when
the speed is increased. Increasing the car speed from 100 km/h to 120
km/h (on the same road) results in an increase of the noise power by 6
dB, located mainly above 1 kHz.

f\) From Noise spectra (see subclause B.2 reference \[6\]).

Supplement n° 13 of the CCITT blue book defines some noise figures for
moving and stationary vehicles.

##### 4.1.1.2.2 Noise due to equipment inside the cars

From **Binaural Measurements of loudness as a parameter in the
evaluation of sound quality in automobiles** (see subclause B.2
reference \[8\]).

The results reported are limited to the influence of the heater fan (at
different speeds).

The measurements are done by a HATS placed in the car on the driver
seat. The two ear simulators are available.

The loudness is calculated according to ISO 532 method B (\"Zwicker\").

The results are expressed in sones (3 sones being considered as the
loudness level of the background noise).

The loudness level due to the fan varies from 3 sones to 6, 11 and 18
sones, as function of the fan speed.

##### 4.1.1.2.3 Signal to noise ratio in the car situation

From **Hands-free and handset mobile telephoning: simulated in situ
assessment of telephonic signals and noise using HATS** (see subclause
B.2 reference \[8\]).

Vehicle speed of 100 km/h is simulated on a chassis dynamometer.

Wind noise not simulated.

Windows and doors closed.

The test is done with a HATS, and through a commercial mobile telephone.

The handsfree microphone and loudspeaker are located at the center
console of the dashboard

**Sending,** see figure 7.

![](media/image11.png){width="6.68125in" height="5.272916666666666in"}

Figure 7:

The speech level produced by HATS is measured at the MRP.

Normal speech level: - 5 dBPa.

Loud speech level: + 7dBPa.

The noise signal ratio is about + 3 dB for loud level, and approximately
-10 dB for normal level.

**Receiving.** Figure 8.

![](media/image12.png){width="6.68125in" height="5.272916666666666in"}

Figure 8

The sound pressure level is measured at the right ERP of HATS, for
normal receive volume, and for maximum volume.

The noise signal ratio is about + 9,5 dB for maximum volume setting, and
approximately -4,8 dB for nominal volume setting.

#### 4.1.1.3 Noise and echo

a\) From Subjective evaluation of quality of communications in car
hands-free radiotelephone situation (see subclause B.2 reference \[9\]).

Two simulated handsfree sets are placed in a car, as defined in table 4:

Table 4

  ----------------- ------------ -------------------------------
  Test conditions   Microphone   Loudspeaker
  RT1               Sun visor    Central position on dashboard
  RT2               Seat belt    Head rest
  ----------------- ------------ -------------------------------

The subjective test is made by distant user using a handset.

A HATS is placed in the car, on the driver seat.

Noise in the car is generated by loudspeakers at 3 different levels:

B0 (idle situation, engine off);

B1 (90 km/h);

B2 (130 km/h).

3 delay conditions (round trip delay: 0 ms, 60 ms, 180 ms) are
available.

3 values for ERLE (S+ 2 dB, S+5 dB, S+11 dB) are introduced in the echo
path , for each Bi condition.

The signal to noise ratio is:

about 11 dB for B1;

about 6 dB for B2.

ORL for RT1 condition.

Table 5

  -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ----------- ------------
  Handsfree to handset                                                 Handset to Handsfree               
                                                                       B0                     B1          B2
  9.8 dB                                                               4.6 dB\*               -5.4 dB\*   -10.5 dB\*
  \* These levels were adjusted before the experiments by operators.                                      
  -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ----------- ------------

An attenuation of 25 dB or 28 dB seems necessary to obtain good or
excellent quality level (DMOS \> 4) in B0 situation, for the 3 delay
conditions.

A minimum attenuation of 15 dB seems to be necessary at 90 km/h (B1) to
ensure a satisfactory quality level (echo DMOS \> 3.5), with round trip
delay of 60 ms and 180 ms.

A minimum attenuation of 12 dB seems to be necessary at 130 km/h (B2) to
ensure an acceptable quality level (echo DMOS \> 3), with round trip
delay of 60 ms and 180 ms.

b\) From Subjective evaluation of quality of communications in car
hands-free radiotelephone context (see subclause B.2 reference \[10\]).

This experiment differs from those described in reference \[9\] of
subclause B.2, mainly on:

\- conversation situation instead of a listening test.

\- the \"driver\" has two tasks: he uses a driving simulator and he
participates to the conversation.

2 delay conditions (round trip delay: 0 ms, 180 ms).

3 values for ERLE (S+2 dB, S+5 dB, S+8 dB) are introduced in the echo
path , for each Bi condition.

Signal to noise ratio is:

about 11 dB for B1;

about 6 dB for B2.

It appears that noise is more annoying that echo for the distant user
(handset).

The detectability threshold of the echo where obtained as:

Table 6

  ---- -------
  B0   28 dB
  B1   19 dB
  B2   13 dB
  ---- -------

### 4.1.2 Environment for testing handsfree mobile station

#### 4.1.2.1 Classification of handsfree mobile terminals

Three categories of handsfree equipment:

\- The lap-top pc or dedicated desk top handsfree terminal. It could be
tested using the desk top style tests listed in I-ETS 300 245-3.

\- Integrated in car solutions, where the electronics of the GSM
handsfree terminal are inseparable from the vehicle in which it is
installed, will be tested with the car in which they are installed.

\- Non-vehicle specific handsfree terminals, that should be tested a
vehicle simulator.

A handsfree terminal, designed for retro-fitting to any vehicle, would
need to be tested in a representative environment (e.g. the vehicle
simulator). In addition, with each terminal potentially requiring
different mounting positions, any \"standard\" test car owned by a test
house would soon be in a poor state of repair due to the constant
alterations to the interior to fit new handsfree terminals for testing.
A difficulty with a vehicle simulator is that it needs to be built and
verified before it can be used.

Since any manufacturer developing a non-vehicle specific handsfree
terminal will have mounted it in a suitable vehicle for development
testing, and that the acoustic properties of a given vehicle are likely
to be just as representative of that class of vehicle as the acoustic
properties of the vehicle simulator, it is proposed that the non-vehicle
specific handsfree terminals are tested in the manufacturer\'s
development testing vehicle.

Certain criteria should still be set for the vehicle such that the tests
are meaningful across a selection of terminals. These criteria should be
that the car provided by the manufacturer should be a medium sized
family. Any non-mobile terminal connected to noise reduction systems in
the car should be disabled. These criteria are designed to ensure that
the test houses will always have test accommodation able to deal with
the cars provided by the manufacturers and that the ambient noise
reduction test, evaluates the mobile not the car.

So, to overcome the funding and timescale issues surrounding the
production of the vehicle simulator, it is proposed that non-vehicle
specific handsfree terminals are tested in a vehicle of the
manufacturers choice, supplied to the test house with the handsfree
equipment pre-installed in the desired mounting position by the
manufacturer. This means that the test facilities required by the test
house will be the same as for vehicle integrated handsfree terminals,
i.e. a garage with suitable noise environment generation. The cost
should be minimal for the manufacturers as they should have carried out
development testing on their terminals in a vehicle prior to seeking
type approval and hence they can use the development test vehicle.

#### 4.1.2.2 Vehicle simulator

##### 4.1.2.2.1 Cost estimation for a vehicle simulator for handsfree testing

The following cost estimation is based on a simplified vehicle simulator
with \"wooden\" windows and a very simplified interior.

In order to build up and validate a vehicle simulator the following
points are necessary:

1\) Construction and build up of a prototype including:

means for fixing microphone, loudspeaker and an artificial head in a
defined, reproducible position, loudspeaker for room noise insertion.

2\) Validation of the simulator including:

measurements in 4 \"representative\" medium sized cars for two different
sets (implementations).

The costs of such a development would be around 90.000,- ECU.

The price for a simulator could be in the range of 17.500,- ECU.

**Driving simulation for subjective tests**

Driving corresponds to specific physical and mental activities. It could
be useful to perform some tests (e.g. conversation tests) in such
conditions, using a driving simulator.

#### 4.1.2.3 Advisory text for installation of handsfree MS in a vehicle environment

\"The hands free specification within ETS 300 903 (GSM 03.50) is
designed to provide a basic level of performance and to avoid adverse
interactions with other networks. Testing is carried out using a vehicle
simulator to standardise the assessment environment. It is designed to
be representative of the vehicle environment rather than mirrors the
exact properties of particular vehicles. Manufacturers, submitting a
handsfree MS to a test house, should assume the standard acoustic
transducer positions or state alternative the mounting positions of the
transducers\".

\"In a real vehicle, care should be taken to allow for the acoustic
properties of that vehicle and the likely acoustic environment. It is
important that the best possible coupling between the microphone and the
MS user is achieved. Hence, the microphone should be directional and
mounted as close to the users mouth as possible. The loudspeakers should
be mounted in such a way that the maximum received signal is directed at
the user, rather than dissipated by the various obstacles in the
vehicle, such as the seats.\"

\"Proper consideration for the noise environment and the direct coupling
between the microphone and loudspeakers is necessary. Excessive noise
coupled into the microphone can mask the MS users sent speech and
potentially affects the operation of DTX. The vehicle noise environment
can potentially mask the received speech unless sufficient volume is
provided. However, direct coupling between the transducers can cause
annoying echo to be heard by the far end user.\"

\"Primary factors affecting the coupling between the loudspeaker(s) and
microphone(s) include:

\- Directionality of the microphone(s)

\- Directionality of the loudspeaker(s)

\- Location of the transducer in relation to reflecting surfaces such as
the windows and windscreen\".

#### 4.1.2.4 Test environment

##### 4.1.2.4.1 Anechoic room

For the lap-top PC or dedicated desk top handsfree terminals, the test
conditions shall be in conformance with I‑ETS 300 245-3.

For vehicle handsfree terminals, some tests could be done in an anechoic
environment.

These tests could permit to check the transducers or/and electroacoustic
equipment performance, like frequency response, harmonic distortion.

The results shall be adapted to take into account the differences
between the anechoic conditions and the real use environment.

NOTE: If the transducers have special connectors permitting to be
unplugged from the handsfree terminal, the test could be performed on
the transducers alone, the impedance\'s of the amplifiers used in the
test equipment being adapted according to the manufacturer instructions.

This test only qualifies the transducers and does not give enough
information on the quality of the complete handsfree terminal (in
particular these tests do not take into account the speech processing,
coding,\...).

##### 4.1.2.4.2 \" Real use \" situation (Handsfree in a real car or in a car simulator)

\- Noisy environment

The table gives a set of reference conditions for noisy environment.

Table 7

+--------------+------------------+------------------+--------------+
| Speed (km/h) | Inside noise     | Outside noise    | Road surface |
+--------------+------------------+------------------+--------------+
| 0            |                  | Road noise (car  |              |
|              |                  | and lorry        |              |
|              |                  | traffic)         |              |
|              |                  |                  |              |
|              |                  | *Non*            |              |
|              |                  | *stationary      |              |
|              |                  | noise*           |              |
+--------------+------------------+------------------+--------------+
| 0            |                  | Street noise     |              |
|              |                  | (people talking  |              |
|              |                  | outside the car) |              |
|              |                  |                  |              |
|              |                  | *Non*            |              |
|              |                  | *stationary      |              |
|              |                  | noise*           |              |
+--------------+------------------+------------------+--------------+
| 0            | Noise of the car |                  |              |
|              | engine           |                  |              |
|              |                  |                  |              |
|              | *Stationary      |                  |              |
|              | noise*           |                  |              |
+--------------+------------------+------------------+--------------+
| 0            | Noise of the fan |                  |              |
|              |                  |                  |              |
|              | *Stationary      |                  |              |
|              | noise*           |                  |              |
+--------------+------------------+------------------+--------------+
| 0            | Speech or/and    |                  |              |
|              | music            |                  |              |
|              |                  |                  |              |
|              | *Non*            |                  |              |
|              | *stationary      |                  |              |
|              | noise*           |                  |              |
+--------------+------------------+------------------+--------------+
| 50 (or 70)   | Noise of the car |                  | Smooth, dry  |
|              | engine           |                  |              |
|              |                  |                  |              |
|              | *Stationary      |                  |              |
|              | noise*           |                  |              |
+--------------+------------------+------------------+--------------+
| 50 (or 70)   | Noise of the car |                  | Rough, dry   |
|              | engine           |                  |              |
|              |                  |                  |              |
|              | *Stationary      |                  |              |
|              | noise*           |                  |              |
+--------------+------------------+------------------+--------------+
| 50 (or 70)   | Noise of the car | Rain falling     | Wet          |
|              | engine           | down on the car  |              |
|              |                  |                  |              |
|              | *Stationary      |                  |              |
|              | noise*           |                  |              |
+--------------+------------------+------------------+--------------+
| 50 (or 70)   | Noise of the car | Road and street  | Smooth, dry  |
|              | engine           | noise            |              |
|              |                  |                  |              |
|              | *Stationary      | *Non*            |              |
|              | noise*           | *stationary      |              |
|              |                  | noise*           |              |
+--------------+------------------+------------------+--------------+
| 120 (or 130) | Noise of the car |                  | Smooth, dry  |
|              | engine           |                  |              |
|              |                  |                  |              |
|              | *Stationary      |                  |              |
|              | noise*           |                  |              |
+--------------+------------------+------------------+--------------+
| 120 (or 130) | Noise of the car |                  | Rough, dry   |
|              | engine           |                  |              |
|              |                  |                  |              |
|              | *Stationary      |                  |              |
|              | noise*           |                  |              |
+--------------+------------------+------------------+--------------+
| 120 (or 130) | Noise of the car | Rain falling     | Wet          |
|              | engine           | down on the car  |              |
|              |                  |                  |              |
|              | *Stationary      |                  |              |
|              | noise*           |                  |              |
+--------------+------------------+------------------+--------------+
| 120 (or 130) | Noise of the car | Road and street  | Smooth, dry  |
|              | engine           | noise            |              |
|              |                  |                  |              |
|              | *Stationary      | *Non*            |              |
|              | noise*           | *stationary      |              |
|              |                  | noise*           |              |
+--------------+------------------+------------------+--------------+

For all these noises, different samples shall be needed to avoid the
behaviour of the speech processing systems be optimised on the test
references.

\- Reverberant environment

A simulated reverberant environment, based on data available in
different laboratories from real impulse responses shall be produced in
the reference test environment. This environment is intended to simulate
the reverberant characteristics of the car interior.

### 4.1.3 Measurements on a GSM handsfree telephone - Influence of the environment and the test conditions on frequency responses and loudness ratings

This subclause presents some experimental results.

Measurements of frequency response curves have been made on a GSM
telephone terminal with hands-free function, mounted in a car and also
according to the principles in ITU-T Recommendation. P.340 (tests
performed under free-field conditions). Loudness Ratings have also been
calculated.

The measurements only represent one example out of many possible
implementations, and cannot be the basis for any general conclusions.

TEST SET-UP

The loudspeaker was mounted on the dashboard of the car. Two types of
microphones were used. One was a stick-on microphone intended to rest on
the chest of the user, the other was a goose-neck microphone with the
possibility to adjust the microphone to a perfect speaking position.

For the measurements at sending an artificial mouth was used. The chest
microphone was hanging in free air in the car 20 cm in front of the
mouth (on axis). The measurement was repeated at the same distance but
in an anechoic room.

The sensitivity of the goose-neck microphone was only measured in an
anechoic room.

The measurements at receiving was made with two different loudspeaker
positions in the car, both at a distance of 85 cm from the measuring
microphone , corresponding to the driver position. The measurements were
repeated in an anechoic room according to the principles in ITU-T
Recommendation. P.340.

The test set-up is shown in figure 9***.***

![](media/image13.emf){width="5.75in" height="3.638888888888889in"}

Figure 9

The sending and receiving frequency responses were measured using pink
noise as test signal. The measurements were made in 1/3 octave bands.

RESULTS

The frequency response curves are shown in figure 10

![](media/image14.png){width="6.688888888888889in"
height="3.504166666666667in"}![](media/image15.png){width="6.691666666666666in"
height="3.178472222222222in"}

Figure 10

The first shows the frequency response at sending. The upper curve is
the goose-neck microphone, the two lower ones are the chest microphone
used in the car and the corresponding measurement made under anechoic
conditions.

The second shows the frequency response at receiving. The two curves
with fat lines are the measurements in the car with two slightly
different placing of the loudspeaker (see the test set-up). The curves
are equalised to correspond to a measuring distance of 50 cm. The three
remaining curves are measured in free field, two of them according to
P.34 with the loudspeaker placed on a flat reflecting surface, the third
without the surface and with the microphone straight in front of the
loudspeaker.

The corresponding loudness rating values are summarised in the tables
below.

Table 8: SLR Measurements

+---------------------------+---------------------+-----------------+
| Artificial mouth position | Microphone position | SLR             |
+---------------------------+---------------------+-----------------+
| Driver position           | Microphone 1        | 17,1 dB (20 cm) |
+---------------------------+---------------------+-----------------+
| Free field conditions     | Microphone 1        | 18,0 dB (20 cm) |
|                           |                     |                 |
|                           | Microphone 2        | 7,1 dB (25 mm)  |
+---------------------------+---------------------+-----------------+

Table 9: RLR Measurements

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Measurement position | Loudspeaker position | RLR (max. volume)    |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Driver position      | left pos             | 1,1 dB (corr. to 50  |
|                      |                      | cm)                  |
|                      | mid pos              |                      |
|                      |                      | 1,8 dB (corr. to 50  |
|                      |                      | cm)                  |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Ref ITU-T            | (frontal)            | 3,3 dB               |
| Recommendation. P340 |                      |                      |
|                      | (49 degrees)         | 2,8 dB               |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Free field           |                      | 6,2 dB               |
| conditions           |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

**Conclusion**

The frequency response at sending measured with the chest microphone
hanging in free air in the car at a distance of 20 cm in front of the
artificial mouth is not too far away from the corresponding curve
measured under free field conditions. However, the sensitivity is
somewhat higher for the chest microphone in the middle frequency region,
whilst it is somewhat lower for low frequencies.

The corresponding SLR values differ by about 1 dB.

Concerning the receiving direction the sensitivity is a little higher at
mid-frequencies for the loudspeaker mounted in the car when compared to
the curve measured according to P.34. At lower frequencies there is no
clear difference between the two cases.

The higher sensitivity at mid-frequencies is reflected in a lower RLR
value for the real measurement compared to the P.340 measurement. The
difference is 1-2 dB.

4.2 Delay in handsfree terminals implemented with signal processing techniques
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 4.2.1 Signal processing techniques for acoustic echo cancelling and noise reduction

For handsfree mobile applications, where the acoustic echo is mixed with
high background noise, it is desirable to have a combination of acoustic
echo cancellation and noise reduction (see subclause B.3 reference
\[1\]). These signal processing techniques may introduce delay. Examples
are given in the following subclauses.

### 4.2.2 Examples of delays due to signal processing techniques

#### 4.2.2.1 Data produced by Matra Communication

In order to eliminate correctly the acoustic echoes perceived by the
far-end listener due to the coupling between the handsfree loudspeaker
and microphone placed in a car cockpit, the Acoustic Echo Cancellation
(AEC) system needs to have efficient performances in terms of initial
convergence, tracking in path variation situations, in adverse noisy and
double-talk situations. Moreover the mobile network adds an important
delay that will stress any bad or insufficient performances of the AEC
if it is not well selected.

For this purpose it is necessary that the AEC is mainly 'full-duplex' in
any above-mentioned conversation situations. However existing component
technology implies to define a minimal additional delay allowed for echo
full-duplex processing and also for additive speech enhancement
processing in noise.

From simulations on real speech databases and realtime assessments, an
additional parameter is defined, called Tadd\_proc, taking into account
any additional and mandatory speech processing block (including noise
bad effects compensation) where Tadd\_proc must is decomposed as
follows:

Delay for signal block size or sub-band decomposition: 16 to 24 ms

Delay for noise reduction 12 to 16 ms

Addition delay for computation **8** to 16 ms

Tadd\_proc 36 to 56 ms

From this global Tadd\_proc for speech processing block (possibly
including noise reduction processing) it is also possible, and relevant
in terms of extra-delay economy, to decompose the minimal requirement in
three minimum values according to the kind of communication (Handset
only or Handsfree). This intends to minimise the extra delays according
to the kind of communications.

These new decomposition leads to three kinds of Tadd\_proc delays
providing minimal values for acceptable echo or/and noise reduction and
defined as follows:

\- **Tadd\_proc\_AEC** for Echo Cancellation when using Handsfree MS,

Recommended minimum Tadd\_proc\_AEC: 28 (to 40) ms

\- **Tadd\_proc\_NR** when using Noise Reduction (NR) and a coupling
reduction processing for use of handset MS,

Recommended minimum Tadd\_proc\_NR: 20 (to 32) ms

\- **Tadd\_proc\_HF** for Hands Free when using AEC and NR when using
Handsfree MS and if it is desired to add NR for listening comfort,

Recommended minimum Tadd\_proc\_HF: 36 (to 56) ms

It can be noticed that Tadd\_proc\_HF value is less than the sum of
Tadd\_proc\_AEC and Tadd\_proc\_NR as the global processing will
generally optimise the computational complexity for the association of
two separate AEC and NR stages and consequently their global delay
(Tadd\_proc\_HF).

It is clear that these extra delays Tadd\_proc\_X could be strongly
reduced, but the extra delay values defined above correspond to signal
processing responding both to realistic computational constraints and to
efficient performance assessed in actual conditions of GSM
communications.

To achieve a sensible extra processing delay reduction, by keeping the
« full duplex » property, exponential-type increasing number of extra
operations would be required: this is the case of RLS-based adaptive
echo canceller working at normal full band and at sample.

Another option to have a low extra delay is to use
'Gain-switching'-based systems deploying low computational complexity.
But the great disadvantages of such systems, in noisy and delayed
transmissions contexts, are disastrous echo suppression and undesired
switching of the useful speech to be transmitted. With such
implementations double talk operation is not possible.

#### 4.2.2.2 Data produced by Ericsson

For reasons on traffic safety, it is worthwhile to use a handsfree
equipment while driving a car and using a mobile telephone. The use of
handsfree equipment is today legislated in some countries, and
legislation is on its way in may other countries.

To obtain a good quality of conversation, the performance in this
handsfree equipment should be as near full duplex as possible. The
inherent long delay in today\'s GSM systems, max. 143.9 ms, makes the
echo problem in handsfree situations much worse than in lower delay
systems (e.g. ETACS, NMT, AMPS). The signal processing needed for these
high quality full duplex handsfree solutions is extremely demanding. It
requires a complexity which often exceeds that of today\'s speech and
channel coding algorithms.

Block processing has proven to be a successful way, in a consumer
oriented digital signal processor (DSP), to cope with the high
complexity.

To fully exploit the benefits of block processing, it is important that
the block length is sufficient:

\- to provide enough data for statistically good estimates of the
properties of noisy speech;

\- to efficiently handle reverberation times in normal car cabins;

\- to provide adequate resolution in the frequency domain.

It is also desirable, for reasons of efficiency in frequency domain
processing, that the block length is a power of two.

A block length of 256 samples, which corresponds to a 32 ms block at 8
ksamples/s, represents a good balance in these respects.

With 32 ms blocks there will be an inherent delay of 32 ms. A reasonable
figure for processing time of such blocks, using today\'s cost
competitive DSPs, is 10 ms.

Our proposal is to allow a minimum of **32 ms + 10 ms = 42 ms**
additional delay for handsfree signal processing.

4.3 Speech quality assessment
-----------------------------

### 4.3.1 General - Factors affecting the speech quality of the GSM system and derivatives

**Speech and Channel Coding Issues**

One of the most fundamental parts of the GSM system is the speech codec.
To reach the required spectral efficiency, the speech codec is used to
compress the speech data to minimise the amount of transmitted
information. To achieve this, the speech codec effectively models the
vocal tract of the user as a filter and sends the filter coefficients to
the decoder, in the TRAU, together with some residual excitation energy.
This basic method enables the speech codec to reduce the speech data
rate to 13 kbit/s for the full-rate (TCH-FS) and EFR codecs and 5.6
kbit/s for the half-rate (TCH-HS) codec.

The reduction in data rate adds distortion to the speech signal, the
extreme effect of which can be heard in some of the military speech
codecs, where the emphasis has been placed on intelligibility rather
than speaker recognition. As a result the speech sounds \'Robotic\'. The
traditional measure for this distortion is the Quantization Distortion
Unit or QDU. One QDU is equivalent to the amount of distortion
introduced by a single transition from analogue speech to 64 kbit/s
G.711 PCM and back to analogue speech. GSM Standard 06.10 states that
the GSM speech codec introduces between 7 and 8 QDUs under error free
(EPO) radio conditions. The QDU is an accurate measure for tandem PCM
and ADPCM systems, allowing planners to determine the amount of
distortion in a call routing path and ensure that it does not breach
ITU-T recommended limits. ITU-T G.113 states that an international
connection should not exceed 14 QDUs, this is broken down into the 5-4-5
rule. This allows the originating nation 5 QDUs, the international
transit network 4 QDUs and the terminating nation 5 QDUs. Clearly a GSM
to GSM call, national or international, will either just meet or breach
these guidelines. Furthermore, there is some subjective evidence to
suggest that the older generation, who grew up with an analogue PSTN
equipped with electro-mechanical switches, will accept the 14 QDU limit.
However the younger generation, who have only really known modern
digitally switched fixed networks, will only accept an upper limit of
9 QDU.

Another problem with speech codecs occurs when one codec is tandemed
with another of either the same or a different type. Apart from the
ITU-T G.721 32 kbit/s ADPCM standard, where synchronous coding
adjustment allows tandeming to occur without any further distortion to
be incurred, most calls will incur more distortion when speech codecs
are tandemed. This is where the QDU begins to be an inaccurate measure
as very low bit rate systems do not behave in a linear way. This is
because some of the speech data, necessary for the second codec to
produce an accurate representation of the input speech, has already been
removed by the first codec, compounding the distortion effect. Although
the ITU-T have now introduced the concept at present on the validity of
these measures for planning the end to end distortion of connections
with low bit rate systems. In addition, the standard only includes the
Impairment Factors of ITU codecs. Tests would be required to assess the
TCH-FS/HS and EFR codecs.

Clearly, any improvement in speech quality is to be applauded. The
recent adoption of the U.S.1. algorithm as the EFR codec has improved
the speech quality of the GSM system, in error free or low error
environments, to \'Wire-line\' quality levels. The challenge now is to
further improve on this advance to make it as invisible to the customer
as possible that the telephone they are using is a cellular radio.

Most cellular network operators are currently embarked on major cell
build programmes aimed to provide high levels of coverage and capacity.
Even with the large numbers of cells currently foreseen there are still
areas of cells where the error performance of the system is poor. This
is due to a number of factors. Radio planning tools rely on clutter
databases to assess the building densities in a given geographic area.
These databases do not hold a picture of the actual buildings but an
approximation of what is actually present. This is also true for terrain
databases. This means that the actual coverage differs from the
predicted coverage. Drive testing can be used to check the quality and
depth of coverage in a given area but this will not correct the entire
network. The buildings that populate a given area all have different
radio penetration losses due to the large variety of construction
methods and even decor used. This cannot be planned for by the network
operator. Hence, the occurrence of EP2 (C/I 7 dB) and EP3 (C/I 4 dB) is
more frequent than desired. One method of overcoming these problems is
to examine the possibilities of \'Robust\' coding.

There is already technology available that shows that a \'Robust\' codec
is possible and that can achieve \'Wire-line\' quality across a broad
range of operating conditions. In theory it could offer additional
capacity in the network as the limit of C/I used for radio planning
could be relaxed. In practice, should a \'Robust\' codec be adopted, the
SACCH signalling channel becomes the limit of performance. The SACCH is
about 2-3 dB more tolerant to C/I than the current full-rate speech
codec. An additional 2-3 dB of C/I margin would provide operators with
additional fringe coverage and greater depth on in-building coverage. A
major gain in radio capacity and coverage could be achieved if the SACCH
performance could be improved to the same levels as a \'Robust\' codec.
This might provide an additional 5 dB or even 6 dB of C/I margin over
the current full-rate system. The full benefits would not be realised
until the majority of the operators customer base was equipped with
\'Robust\' mobiles, but the possibilities are worth exploring.

Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) is another aspect of speech coding that
affects the speech quality of the system. The Voice Activity Detector
used to detect when the customer is speaking or not, inevitably
introduces some clipping which can reduce the quality. Acoustic noise
also effects the DTX system. The full-rate VAD was optimised to work
with in car noise where the temporal characteristics are less dynamic
than say street noise. As a result the VAD can be \'false\' triggered,
reducing the effectiveness of DTX at reducing C/I and extending mobile
battery life. Frequency Hoping is useful to reduce the effect of fading
on the speech path by hoping to another channel that is not affected by
the fade.

The complexity of a given speech codec has a knock on effect on the
speech quality of the system. With a more complex algorithm, the speech
codec can usually produce better speech quality for a given bit rate.
However, to support that codec is mobile equipment, the signal
processing technology has to be able to run the software in a reasonable
period of time. Hence, complexity and delay are intrinsically linked.
Delay, as we shall see later, can seriously degrade the quality of a
connection.

**Terminal Issues**

Many, of the key speech quality parameters are determined solely within
the GSM mobile. In addition, several of these parameters are critical of
the interworking between the mobile network and any interconnected
networks.

The Send Loudness Rating (SLR), in the mobile to land direction, and the
Receive Loudness Rating (RLR) in the land to mobile direction, determine
the audio signal levels for the customers speech. The loudness ratings
are calculated from the send and receive sensitivity masks or frequency
responses. These are dictated by the acoustic transducers used as well
as the anti-aliasing and reconstruction filters for the analogue to
digital converters. One criticism levelled at GSM is that it is
\'quiet\'. This is difficult to understand as the SLR and RLR are in
line with ITU-T long term values.

It is important that the test method for TCL as well as the requirement
are carefully considered. Echo problems were reported when GSM was first
introduced, even on national calls. The GSM phase 1 TCL test allowed
sinusoidal test stimuli to be passed through the speech codec, as some
manufacturers use aspects of the speech codec in their acoustic echo
cancellation devices. Unfortunately the GSM full-rate codec causes
spectral spreading on sinusoidal signals which, when measured at their
discrete frequencies, have a lower power than the equivalent speech
signal. This meant that mobiles were passing the test but failing in an
operational environment. The phase 2 test uses the ITU-T P.50 artificial
voice to address this problem.

Acoustic echo cancellation can be used as part of the TCL solution.
However, to produce a stable acoustic echo canceller requires a complex
algorithm due to the variable nature of the echo path. A complex
algorithm requires additional delay which will cause other end to end
speech quality problems. A low delay algorithm will not be as resilient
but can be used as one part of the TCL solution.

The interaction of acoustic noise on other system components can have a
damaging effect on their ability to meet the needs of the customers. A
particular example of this is the current half-rate codec noise problems
where an acoustic noise rejection mask has been demonstrated to greatly
improve the performance but has been rejected as it places stringent
design restrictions on mobile terminals. An alternative algorithmic
approach has been proposed but this will take as long, if not longer to
implement, will require more delay and will still affect the speech
quality. Noise coupling can have a serious affect of the public
perception of the service offered.

Handsfree terminals pose a particular problem to speech quality. The
traditional vehicle mounted handsfree environment is particularly
hostile. The acoustic volume is surrounded by a reflective material with
high ambient noise levels. To overcome this the handsfree system has to
use some algorithmic solutions but these introduce additional delay
which causes problems with conversation quality. The recent adoption
(ETS 300 903) of an additional delay for handsfree processing has
increased the GSM one way delay budget by 40 % and is highly likely to
cause problems with end to end quality. In addition a TCL limit (lower
than 46 dB) has been adopted for handsfree. The argument for reducing
the TCL is that the noise will mask any echo. However, the GSM handsfree
car phone is installed in an environment where several people can use
it. The system is usually installed for the benefit of the driver but a
rear seat passenger may wish to use it, or the passengers may all wish
to contribute to a call, requiring the volume to be increased so that
they can all hear the system.

To avoid future problems in the operational environment it would be
better to further develop the test methods to use a Head And Torso
Simulator (HATS) which more accurately represents the human that will
use the terminal. In addition, carrying out a more system oriented set
of tests using an artificial speech stimuli, such as the ITU-T P.50
algorithm, including the codec would be more appropriate.

**Network Issues**

The Mobile Switching Centre (MSC) incorporates an echo canceller
adhering to ITU-T G.165 with at least a 60 ms echo path window. This is
because the fixed network does not have echo control in the national
network and the delay of the GSM system necessitates some form of echo
control. It is important that the interaction of the MSC echo canceller
with other network echo cancellers is understood. In an international
connection between Europe and USA there will be an echo canceller in the
home countries International Switching Centre (ISC) looking at the GSM
network. This canceller will normally have a 64 ms echo path window but
will be trying to cancel echoes over a 190 ms echo path. In addition the
non-linear GSM speech codec renders the canceller ineffective. For this
reason the ISC echo canceller should be switched out of the connection.
The far end ISC will have an echo canceller looking at the far end
customer. This canceller is connected in tandem with the MSC echo
canceller. Tests carried out by BTL have shown that echo cancellers
connected in tandem can reduce the amount of echo control by between 3
dB and 6 dB dependent on whether the centre clippers are active or not.
For this reason the MSC echo canceller should be switched out. The
mechanism for doing this is the CCITT n° 7 signalling system. By acting
upon the information on the echo flag in the Initial Address Message
(IAM) and the Final Address Message (FAM), the cancellers can be
correctly controlled. In addition when choosing an echo canceller it
important to realise that most cancellers have been built to meet the
Blue Book G.165 which uses white noise to assess the cancellers
performance. Unfortunately their performance can be reduced when
operating with speech.

The fixed links used to connect the BTS to the BSC and on to the MSC via
the TRAU can affect the speech quality of the system. Fixed link errors
can occur that can cause errors on the Abis speech frames which do not
have any error correction on them. Ultimately, this could cause a bad
frame to be seen as good by the TRAU. It has been suggested that TRAU
bypass should be implemented to eliminate the effects of tandemed
codecs. It must be remembered that this will only be true for
connections between mobiles on the same coding scheme, e.g. full-rate.
It should also be remembered that the same speech frame will be
subjected to two radio paths. Hence, a mobile in an EP1 radio
environment connected to another mobile in an EP1 environment could
create an EP3 call.

Codec tandeming is also a problem for non-real time communications.
Voice messaging systems also use low bit rate speech coding to store the
message. This adds another type of codec and more distortion to the
connection. Call forwarding can also have an effect on the speech
quality. Calls from a mobile to a fixed phone which has been diverted to
a mobile will not be as good quality as a call which goes directly
between the two mobiles as the echo control and delay will not be
optimal.

When developing interconnect agreements it is important to remember the
routing of calls through the interconnected network. International
calls, in particular, can be routed through Digital Circuit
Multiplication Equipment (DCME) and Digital Speech Interpolation (DSI)
systems. These add delay, distortion and clipping which may be
unacceptable when combined with the GSM system. The international
network also makes use of geostationary satellite routes which add 260
ms one way delay. GSM operators may wish to have their calls routed via
cable connections as a preference.

**Interconnect Issues**

When developing and implementing a GSM mobile network it is important
that the effects of the given design on the end-to-end speech quality
are understood such that a design that offers acceptable quality across
the full range of call scenarios, is implemented. This means that a
balance must be found between the various engineering and commercial
pressures that exist when designing the system. The difficulties of
apportioning the various transmission parameters becomes increasingly
difficult in a multi-operator environment. In many countries there is
still only one fixed network operator with one or two cellular operators
and a number of Private Branch Networks (PBNs). With this scenario it is
relatively easy to apportion delay, loudness ratings and the other
transmission quality parameters. However, as telecommunications
liberalisation progresses most countries will develop a multi-operator
environment similar to that in the United Kingdom where there are over
100 licensed operators, offering local, trunk and radio networks and
services.

Originally the United Kingdom relied on individual interconnect
agreements between operators to agree the apportionment of transmission
parameters across the network boundaries, guided by the Network Code Of
Practice (NCOP). As the number of operators grew this technique became
difficult to manage and the industry is now moving towards standard
contracts with the transmission apportionment following the Network
Performance Design Standards (NPDS) document produced for the Public
Network Operators Interest Group (PNO-IG), a subgroup of the Department
of Trade and Industry\'s (DTI) Network Interfaces Coordination Committee
(NICC).

The NPDS document uses a network model to apportion transmission
parameters. End-to-end limits are taken from ITU-T Recommendations and
individual system standards, such as the GSM Recommendations. It is
assumed that there are local loop operators, Radio Local Loop (RLL)
operators, such as Ionica, cellular operators, such as Cellnet, and
trunk network operators, such as BT and Energis.

One of the major principles of the document is that it is the
responsibility of the operator that bills the customer, to deal with any
complaints. This means that if a fixed customer calls a mobile customer,
hears echo and subsequently complains to the fixed operator, the fixed
operator has the responsibility to address the problem with the mobile
operator. Unfortunately, in this example, the echo is usually due to the
mobile customer\'s handset. The only safeguard that the mobile network
operator has that the handset will not cause echo is that it has passed
a type approval test, which we have already seen, can be inadequate and
are under pressure to be removed. Current type approval test methods for
digital cellular handsets do not fully represent their operational use
and hence it is possible for handsets to pass the test but still cause
echo whilst in use. The mobile operator has little or no control over
the handsets connected to his network. The echo problems, if generated
by a sufficient number of handsets and hence affect a large number of
calls, can lead to litigation between the fixed and mobile operator. It
is important that the type approval tests continue to be carried out and
that they reflect the operational use of the handset.

### 4.3.2 Main Assessment Criteria for Handsfree processing used in GSM mobile environment

From Field tests performed with handsfree GSM mobile phone in car and
office environment it appeared that the main assessment criteria
relevant to assess in a realistic way various handsfree processing
solutions are the following (classified into two main categories):

\* Parameters affecting the Speech transmission quality:

· *clarity* for users at each side of the communication

· *distortion* on speech to be transmitted

· *Intelligibility* of transmitted speech

· *Double-talk behaviour* when users are talking simultaneously

· *clipping effect*: on words end-points, hashing of words, generally
characterising Echo suppresser techniques

· *fluctuation* of the received voice at each side of the communication

\* Annoying artefacts due to the Handsfree processing:

· residual *echo* level and nature and stability (e.g.
convergence/tracking)

· *noise* level

· *noise* contrast effects

The Handsfree processing stage can include an association of an Echo
Canceller (generally equalisation adaptive filters), a Gain switching
system and possibly a noise reduction module.

### 4.3.3 Evaluation Methodology for Full-Duplex Acoustic Echo Controllers developed within the FREETEL-Esprit project

These data are derived from two publications referred as in reference
\[4\] of subclause B.5 and reference \[5\] of subclause B.5.

For assessing a Handsfree function of a mobile/fixed telephone a clear
and reliable methodology of evaluation based on the speech quality
objective criteria imposed on the Acoustic Echo Controllers (AEC) is
needed in order to compare and assess several candidates of AEC. Hence
an evaluation methodology, preferably designed in an objective way for
reliability and costs reasons, must also include the definition of the
test signals that may be speech or/and synthetic, and after that the
selection of a reduced database corpus performed with the realistic
acoustic front-ends used in the relevant environments (handsfree mobile
phones in cars, offices\...).

An objective evaluation methodology for Acoustic Echo Cancellers (AEC)
based on ITU- T recommendation G.167 has been developed within the
FREETEL project[^1] and allowed to evaluate/compare the AEC algorithms
performances on real echo/speech signals and acoustic front-ends
recordings.

However some modifications have been felt necessary in the project to
adapt this objective methodology to the evaluation of a real Handsfree
device with selected or given realtime integrated AEC algorithm in its
context of application.

One of the main interests of this real-context objective evaluation
targeted by was to offer the possibility of correlating the objective
criteria measurements with partial subjective tests performed by a
speaker/listener using the handsfree device in the same time.

In order to validate the proposed objective evaluation procedure for a
real handsfree device it was led to dispose of a subjective evaluation
methodology to assess the speech quality through the global handsfree
system including:

\- the Acoustic Front-End (AFE) composed of the Handsfree terminal
microphone(s) and loudspeaker(s);

\- the AEC algorithm with its, so-called, \"glue\" (corresponding to
Double-Talk Detector (DTD), Voice Activity Detector (VAD);

\- the GSM network, which was in this case the Full-rate codec.

Works on show, after first evaluations of AEC approaches developed in
the project, some lacks of reliability on the objective criteria
extracted from ITU-T recommendations for assessing handsfree functions
of telephones, and, namely for GSM mobiles, adapted objective-subjective
procedure based on the combination of a set of objective criteria
measurements with limited subjective tests orientated towards the
validation of the objective parameters is proposed.

This evaluation methodology elaborated in FREETEL project is presented
in two main parts:

\- Objective Evaluation procedure based on the parameters of ITU-T
Recommendation G.167, including comments on the relevance of each
parameter by the evaluation of Full-duplex AEC algorithms on
real-contexts databases. This is described in next subclause 4.3.3.1.

\- Adapted Objective Evaluation procedure based on the previous
Objective Evaluation tool applied for the evaluation of any real-time
echo canceller algorithm integrated in a real handsfree acoustic
front-end device. This step of the Evaluation would be useful for the
prototyping of a realtime echo canceller in a given handsfree acoustic
front-end (AFE). This is described in next subclause 4.3.3.2.

#### 4.3.3.1 Objective Evaluation procedure

An Objective Evaluation procedure is worthwhile if it complies with
recommendations of telecommunications standards. A first and complete
issue of ITU-T recommendation G.167 specifically applying Acoustic Echo
Controllers (AEC) specifies a list of parameters to take into account
for the working of an AEC placed in a given handsfree terminal for each
kind of telecommunication networks, in particular for mobile radio
systems. Recommended values for these parameters are generally
provisional and are regularly amended according to the progress of the
techniques and the real limits that would be given as feedback by
handsfree telephones users: indeed it does not exist a clear
specification of these limits, as also stressed in references \[2\],
\[3\]of subclause B.5, however the recommended values provided by ITU-T
Recommendation G.167 are precious and helpful for the AEC evaluation as
they constitute the first and alone specifications with simple
methodologies of tests provided in this context.

##### 4.3.3.1.1 Objective Evaluation methodology of AEC devices 

The Evaluation Methodology of AECs is based on a list of AEC
performances parameters defined by ITU-T Recommendation G.167. This
list, including 12 AEC performance parameters that acoustic echo
controllers have to comply when placed in a handsfree terminal, can be
classified into 3 main classes:

\- Terminal coupling loss parameters

\- Time adaptivity parameters

Attenuation of speech in double-talk situations

Figure 11: Handsfree audio terminal

**a) Terminal Coupling Loss**

Denoted TCL (or TCLw), is the overall attenuation of the echo resulting
from the acoustic coupling of the terminal combined with the effect of
the echo canceller. In fact it corresponds to the following ratio in dB,

$\text{TCL} = \text{10}\text{log}\left( \frac{\text{En}(\text{Rin})}{\text{En}(\text{Sout})} \right)$
(1)

Where En(.) defines the energy of respectively the Received input signal
(Rin) and the Sent output signal (Sout) at ends of the audio terminal.
In fact TCL (or TCLw) corresponds to the sum of two important
quantities, the coupling loss between the loudspeaker and the
microphone, denoted CL, and the Echo Return Loss Enhancement, denoted
ERLE, which measures the intrinsic efficiency of the AEC algorithm.

The coupling loss (CL) has the following expression:

$\text{CL} = \text{10}\text{log}\left( \frac{\text{En}(\text{Rout})}{\text{En}(\text{Sin})} \right)$
(2)

ERLE is the difference between the raw echo and the reduced echo got as
output of the AEC processing whose expression is:

$\text{ERLE} = \text{10}\text{log}\left( \frac{\text{En}(\text{Sin})}{\text{En}(\text{Sout})} \right)$
(3)

with,

\(4\)

if by assuming that Rin = Rout, i.e. no loss is present in the Receive
way (case of an AEC).

In the case of loss in the Receive way of the handsfree system - use of
an echo suppresser (realised by gain switching) or more generally
existence of attenuation/gain in the receive part - we must take into
account this third quantity in the parameter TCL, the Receive Loss,
denoted RL,

$\text{RL} = \text{10}\text{log}\left( \frac{\text{En}(\text{Rin})}{\text{En}(\text{Rout})} \right)$
(5)

which gives in the general case,

\(6\)

In the Evaluation Methodology it is taken into account more specifically
the ERLE quantity (relative to the intrinsic performance of the AEC
stage for a given acoustic front-end) as the TCL can be deduced from it
by adding the RL and CL parameters that are generally considered as
constant (RLcst, CLst) in the case of digital Handsfree functions.
However for Echo Suppressers (ES) the RL quantity is not exactly
constant but it can be noted that it is composed of a symmetric value of
the ERLE plus a constant RL value. This can be summarised as follows:

\- for AECs: TCL = ERLE + (RLcst + CLcst) (7)

\- for ESs:TCL = 2.ERLE + (RLcst + CLcst) (8.1)

where

RL = ERLE + RLcst (8.2)

From this, three main sub-quantities characterising the AEC in three
specific situations as simple talk (st), double talk (dt) and echo path
variation (pv) are defined:

**a.1.** **ERLEst/TCLwst** which measures the terminal coupling loss in
Simple Talk situation, i.e. the far-end subscriber is talking without
near-end signal simulating the near-end speaker or the Handsfree
terminal user.

It is recognized that it is necessary to reach a minimum value of 46 dB
in case of important network delays (e.g. GSM) and, on the other hand,
it is really difficult to obtain such a high value without degrading the
transmission quality, with the existing Echo Suppressers based on gain
switching technology, in particular in transient situations as \"dt\"
and gain switching phases in general. Indeed this deficiency of Echo
Suppressers (Gain Switching) is moreover stressed by the important
Networks delays.

Now it is clear that such a limit for TCLwst is still considered as
difficult and consequently in a full-duplex way as AEC algorithms cannot
presently reach this value without unrealistic big computational load,
which, then, precludes any integration of such complex algorithms on
existing component technology fitting to manufacturing constraints of
GSM terminals. It should seem more realistic to reduce this limit for
handsfree terminals to take into account the real efficiency of AEC
techniques that can be deployed with existing and cost-effective Signal
Processing Components Technology. This was the case in the actual GSM
Standard ETS 300 903. These figures represent a fair trade-off between
maintained 'Full-duplex' properties (requested by users) and an
acceptable level of residual echoes reduction.

This parameter after successive evaluations was found as a reliable
objective criteria pending that test signals are close to real speech
signals.

**a.2.** **ERLEdt/TCLwdt** corresponding to the previous case but with
near-end speaker activity

It is recognized that a TCL (and TCLw) limit in double talk situation
could be lower than in single talk (Preliminary values are available in
I-ETS 300 245-3).

Evaluation Methodology implemented the proposed scheme and obtained
results unable to separate correctly different AEC candidates. Other
approaches to compute the ERLEdt were proposed in reference \[4\] of
subclause B.5, but no clear conclusions were drawn, except that this
parameter was not easy to represent. Hence it has been provisionally
concluded that only subjective measurements could be performed.

**a.3.** **ERLEpv/TCLwpv** measuring the echo loss during echo path
variation: the AEC is let to converge to value ERLEst (or TCLwst) in the
\"st situation\", then an echo path variation is applied during 5s, the
ERLEpv is the ERLE measurement at the end of this time.

TCLwpv should be *greater than 10 dB.*

**a.4.** **ERLEstn/ERLEpvn/ERLEdtn (TCLstn/TCLpvn/TCLdtn)** measuring
the echo loss during simple talk, echo path variation or Double-talk in
noisy environments (i.e. when noise is added to the echo, or to the echo
plus the near-end speech). The ERLExxn/TCLxxn evaluation procedures in
noise have been kept similar to a.1, a.2, and a.3 procedures, but values
here need to be defined. Moreover, depending on its spectral shape,
noise may present different masking effects on the echo. So values must
be defined for a given kind of noise to be selected among: white noise,
low-frequency noise (car noise), medium frequencies noise (town & cars
traffic) or speech-like noise (babble, cocktail party).

In order to get reliable values of TCL in noise, better is to use noise
with stationary spectrum like car noise or (filtered-) white noise.

Even if values are not defined, the ERLExxn/TCLxxn evaluation in noise
is recommended and allows to check and compare the robustness properties
of different AEC techniques.

**b.** **Time adaptivity Parameters**

Time adaptivity parameters are intended to evaluate the performances of
an AEC in different situations of communications. Five parameters have
been identified in ITU-T Recommendation G.167 corresponding to four
precise communication modes:

**b.1.** **Tic** (initial convergence time) characterises the
convergence behaviour of the AEC at the beginning of a communication
assuming that the near-speaker does not talk or has already talked a
first time. In ITU-T recommendation G.167 the echo attenuation in simple
talk measured by the TCLst should be *at least 20 dB after Tic=1s*.

This parameter has been integrated in the Evaluation Methodology and
provided a quite reliable measurement pending that test signals are
energetic enough on a sufficient time period and close to real speech
signals (see Test Signals Database in subclause 4.3.3.1.2).

**b.2.** **Trdt** (recovery time after double-talk) is the time
necessary to recover a given echo attenuation after a double-talk event.

The provisional limit in ITU-T Recommendation G.167 is *Trdt=1s for a
ERLEst of at least 20 dB*.

In practice the double-talk is generated during 2s after the AEC has
reached TCLwst, then cut off and a timer is started to measure the
re-convergence of the EC in simple-talk again (after double-talk event).
This parameter was also integrated in the Evaluation Methodology but no
conclusive results can be drawn.

**b.3.** **Trpv** (time necessary to recover a given attenuation of the
echo after an echo path time variation)*.*

*Trpv should have the same limit as Trdt*.

The means to produce an echo path variation is still under study by
ITU-T, so the \"gain varying\" technique applied on the echo present in
the microphone channel was provisionally considered as a quite
representative of an echo path variation in the Evaluation Methodology.

**b.4.** **Tonst/Tondt**(break-in times in simple and double talk
situations) are intended to measure the decreasing speed of transmitted
speech attenuation. These parameters, computed for both Receive and Send
sides, are more relevant to the Echo Suppressers case (half-duplex gain
switching techniques).

From Tonst, when attenuation becomes lower than 3 dB, Tonst should be \<
20 ms. On the other hand Tondt should be \< 20 ms when attenuation
becomes lower than 6 dB.

Hence in the Evaluation Methodology these parameters have not been
retained as AEC techniques are full-duplex and no switching gain are
applied on each channel. Nevertheless these quantities should be added
if a full-duplex AEC (Adaptive filtering) is associated with an Echo
Suppresser.

**b.5.** **Tic\_n/Trdt\_n/Trpv\_n** measuring the Time adaptavity or
reactivity of the AEC techniques during simple talk, Double-talk or echo
path variation in noisy environments (when noise is added to the echo,
or to the echo plus the near-end speech). The corresponding evaluation
procedures in noise have been kept similar to b.1, b.2, and b.3
procedures, but values here need to be defined and equivalent remarks on
noise shapes to TCLxxn in a.4 are also applying.

**c)** **Speech Attenuation/Distortion in Double Talk mode**

These parameters are intended to measure the attenuation and distortion
observed onto received and sent speech when double talk situations
occur. These parameters are respectively denoted Ardt/Asdt and Drdt/Dsdt
for receive/send speech attenuation and distortion.

These parameters have not been used in the Evaluation Methodology as
their interpretation has been found problematic for the case of AEC
based on digital filtering (see subclause B.5 reference \[4\]).

**c.1.** **Ardt/Asdt** correspond to the speech attenuation
(received/sent speech) during double talk. A similar evaluation
procedure as for TCLwdt can be used. Asdt/Ardt are obtained by comparing
the speech just before adding 2s of double talk and the attenuated
speech just after removing the double talk signal.

In both sides, Asdt and Ardt should be less than 6 dB.

**c.2.** **Drdt/Dsdt** correspond to the distortion of received/sent
speech during double talk. The evaluation procedure is similar to the
TCLwdt one, the distortion is obtained by comparing transmitted speech
before and after double talk in terms of a distortion measure.

Values are not specified and they are still under study.

NOTE: For AECs Ardt and Drdt are not necessary since AECs do not alter
speech signal in the receive way both for simple talk and double talk
situations.

##### 4.3.3.1.2 Test Signals used from the FREETEL-Esprit Database

Test Signals have been extracted from the FREETEL-Esprit database
including handsfree telephone sets conditions for GSM applications in
car and room (offices): handsfree acoustic part of the terminal was used
for office echo recordings whereas separated microphone-loudspeaker(s)
handsfree front-end was selected for echo recordings in car (Renault
25). In fact this last handsfree front-end corresponded to the commonly
named \"handsfree car-kit\" now commercialised for most of the GSM
mobile placed in car.

Several kinds of signals have been recorded. These signal sequences
include at the same time the far-end signal recorded at the loudspeaker
input, (i.e. Rout) and the echo signal picked up at the microphone
output (i.e. Sin):

\- real speech signals (1M/1F) for both English/French languages
including couples of sentences and balanced energetic sentences for
measuring AEC convergence/echo reduction performances such as (Tic,
Trpv) and averaged (TCLst, TCLpv).

\- USASI signals which correspond to long-term average of speech signals
and often used for their continuity of energy. They are very useful for
tuning the AECs and also measuring (TCLst, TCLpv) parameters.

\- White noise sequences for the acoustic echo impulse response
identification and for the analysis of transfer frequency function
between the loudspeaker and the microphone.

\- CSS signals (Composite Source Signals) which are composed of high-,
low-correlated signals and silence periods aiming at simulating speech
signals. The use of real speech (couples of sentences & energetic
sentences) or constant synthetic signals as USASI were preferred in this
Evaluation Methodology.

NOTE: This part of the FREETEL database is not presently available but a
procedure to make it \"public\" is under way.

#### 4.3.3.2 Adapted objective evaluation procedure to a GSM Handsfree mobile

##### 4.3.3.2.1 Motivation of an adapted evaluation procedure

In the context of the GSM mobile the objective methodology of evaluation
presented in subclause 4.3.3.1 and in details in reference document
\[4\] of subclause B.5, had to be focused onto the existing Handsfree
device real-time platforms aiming at prototyping Industrial handsfree
echo cancellation devices. The DSP board (EVM or commercial board),
implementing the pre-selected AEC algorithms (after simulation), is
connected through interfaces to the acoustic front-ends (the \"Handsfree
Adapter\") and the PC-AT driving the application. The Handsfree Adapter
allows to connect different acoustic front-ends such as a mobile handset
or a 'handsfree car-kit' and permits to configurate the global system
Acoustic front-end/PC-DSP in two possible ways of communications:
internal mode or real GSM mode.

On the other hand the Evaluation Methodology of AEC devices has been
materialized into an Evaluation Tool (ET) implemented in C-language (see
subclause B.5 reference \[4\]) based on each of the ITU-T G.167
parameters presented in subclause 4.3.3.1.1. However some modifications
in the ET were felt necessary namely by only keeping objective
parameters that were found reliable and relevant for AEC during
preliminary evaluations on real acoustic front-ends signals for
pre-selection of AEC algorithms. The separameters ??? are::

\- echo reduction measures in Simple talk ('st') and Path Variation
('pv') modes: ERLEst/TCLst, ERLEpv/TCLpv, Tic, Trpv;

\- the similar parameters but computed in noisy conditions:
ERLExxn/TCLxxn, Txx\_n.

The procedure is based on the use of the far-end terminal either in the
handsfree or in the handset modes in order to take into account the
possible distortion effects onto the far-end speech signal Rin going
across the different communication stages inside the mobile terminal
(A/D-D/A converting, speaker gain, speech encoding/decoding\...) till
the loudspeaker input Rout of the near-end terminal still in the
handsfree mode. This procedure, presented in the following subclause
4.3.3.2.2, is materialised by recordings of useful signals for the
echoes characterisation and AEC processing evaluation: the objective is
to perform these recordings by using the global system PC-DSP-Handsfree
Adapter above-described.

On the other side the GSM network effect, which is essentially

\- the 90 ms delay making a double-delay shift onto the acoustical echo
versus to the original signal,

\- the low-level noise signals, generated by the GSM network and that
may perturbate the AEC filter,

had to be included and, this, by performing a real GSM communication
between the near-end and the far-end parts: this facility was offered by
the Handsfree adapter that provided an interface with a GSM base.

The following subclauses present this Adapted Evaluation procedure to be
used to prototype any echo cancellation stage for a given acoustic
front-end such as a handsfree car-kit (microphone and loudspeaker are
independent) or a « self-contained handsfree » handset (the microphone
and the loudspeaker are in the same box and close to each other). Then
it is derived and proposed from this procedure a scheme for assessing a
whole Handsfree device for GSM terminals.

##### 4.3.3.2.2 Objective evaluation procedure for prototyping the GSM Handsfree AEC algorithms

The proposed procedure was based on the use of a Head and Torso
Simulator (HATS) successively placed in front of the different kinds of
terminals connected to the Handsfree Adapter. The procedure decomposes
in two main steps:

a\) creating of a specific handsfree speech database within the GSM
mobile platform context

b\) objective evaluation of the AEC processing by using pre-recorded
speech signals resulting from step a)

The following block-diagram provides an illustration of the procedure
tool.

Figure 12: Block-diagram of the Evaluation system for a Handsfree
Mobile/Fixed Terminal

**a) Pre-recording and storage of the specific handsfree speech
database**

This phase corresponding to the pre-recording of handsfree speech
materials will be only done once. It is composed of three steps,

**Step 1:** Diffuse by means of HATS (2) the speech input files of the
FREETEL -Esprit database (see subclause 4.3.3.1.2, loudspeaker input
files) corresponding to speech/synthetic signals. In the same time these
signals are recorded both at the Lsp1 loudspeaker input, denoted Rout,
and at the Mic2 microphone output, denoted Rin, in a digital format and
stored into the hard disk memory of the external PC driving the DSP
board. Rin can be recorded either at the Handsfree adapter interface
(input of the echo cancellation system), including the GSM network , or
at the far-end Mic2 output. Recordings can be synchronised at the
far-end with the near-end.

**Step 2:** Newly stored signal Rout is then transformed according to a
linear rule of gain varying for simulating the echo path variation. New
transformed signal will be denoted Rout\_pv. All these
operations/computations are supported by the PC.

**Step 3:** Signal Rout (or Rout\_pv), stored in the PC memory, is
diffused by the PC through the loudspeaker Lsp1, the Sin signal at the
microphone Mic1 output is recorded and stored in the PC memory. For this
step of the database recording two kinds of situation are foreseen:

\- in simple talk situation with the near-end HATS (1) in silent state,

\- in double talk with HATS (1) diffusing in the same time a near-end
speech.

\- both situations with ambient noise generation extracted from a
library of pre-defined noise files

**b. Objective evaluation of the AEC processing on the Handsfree
Database**

After the specific database recording task realised once in **a.** the
objective evaluation of AEC algorithms implemented into the DSP can be
started every time one desires. During the AEC processing, the following
operations will be done in the same time:

\- the pre-stored Sin signal (echo + possible near-end speech produced
by HATS(1)) is being diffused;

\- the pre-stored Rin signal is being diffused;

\- the output signal from the AEC denoted Sout in the figure will be
provisionally stored into the PC memory. We recall that the output
signal Sout will represent in this case the residual echo signal +
possible transformed \"dt\" signal and environment noise.

After that the Evaluation Tool (ET) will provide by using all necessary
stored signals the AEC performance parameters previously defined
according to 4.3.3.1.1 and reference \[4\] of subclause B.5 and the
deviation to the ITU-T recommended values. In fact the ET software will
be preferably placed in the PC and will give these results under a
synthetic table format every time one desires to test the AEC algorithms
integrated inside the DSP board. Then these results can also be compared
to the simulation results obtained with the same AEC methods implemented
in C-unix. Nevertheless only the set of parameters retained in 4.3.3.2.1
are considered with reliance.

**This objective evaluation procedure will allow to check** preferably
**the performances of the real time AEC versions with regards its
simulated version**

##### 4.3.3.2.3 Proposed Objective-Subjective Evaluation procedure

The proposed Objective-Subjective evaluation consisted in performing
listening tests by using the Handsfree system Objective ET platform
presented in subclause 4.3.3.2.2. A limited number of expert listeners
(e.g. 10 listeners) will give quality marks well targeted on the main
handsfree effects to be analysed , previously defined in subclause 4.3.2
such as echo disturbance, bad tracking/convergence on the echo, clipping
effects, transmitted ambient noise contrasts. The Handsfree system ET
will compute in the same time the retained Objective parameters. This is
intended to provide some feedback on the objective parameters thanks by
the evaluation of subjective quality performances done by the expert
listeners.

This Objective-Subjective Evaluation procedure was not fully validated
but was partly used for real implementation of AEC techniques on target
DSPs. This might be used also to validate firstly-retained objective
parameters (in 4.3.3.2.1) and make necessary modifications/refinements
on those that are not easy to interpretation/implementation (double talk
situations). If this first step is considered as satisfactory then an
objective evaluation based on the pre-validated objective parameters
could be only done for each handsfree function to be tested.

From experiments performed with the FREETEL handsfree system in real GSM
communications it has been felt mandatory to keep, for the Handsfree
device evaluation, the GSM network component since it has a significant
influence onto the AEC filtering stages.

##### 4.3.3.2.4 Derived Evaluation schemes for Handsfree mobile telephones

From the previous objective evaluation procedure of Handsfree AEC
processing devices it is also interesting to derive the same type of
procedure for Handsfree GSM terminal products.

This procedure permits to compute a set of 11 objective parameters
retained in subclause 4.3.3.2.1 aiming at validating the main
performances of the AEC device integrated in the Handsfree terminal.

This set of 11 parameters is computed by means of the Evaluation Tool
software mentioned in subclause 4.3.3.2.1 and are summarised hereafter:

\- Average echo loss (TCLst) and convergence times in simple talk Tic 20
(till TCL reaches TCLst -20dB) and Tic 10 (till TCL reaches TCLst - 10
dB). Tic characterises the reactivity of the AEC when the communication
starts;

\- Average echo loss (TCLpv) and convergence times after echo path
variation Tic\_pv\_10 / Tic\_pv\_20 (at TCLpv=10dB/20 dB) Tic\_pv
measures the reactivity of AEC after \"path variation\" of the acoustic
echo;

\- Performances of echo reduction in noisy environments: (TCLstn,
Tic\_stn) and (TCLpvn,Tic\_pvn);

Noise is added on the acoustic echo and must present preferably a
stationary spectrum;

\- Behaviour assessment of a purely \"Half-duplex\" device (gain
switching) in interactive situations between the near-end and the
far-end users: the Tonst parameter measure is recommended to be added
but this parameter need to be analysed.

The following schemes of evaluation can be used for measuring
performances of AEC systems integrated in GSM terminals.

Figure 13: Evaluation of the AEC function of a GSM Terminal

Same procedure can also be used for GSM terminals equipped of a
Handsfree car-kit:

Figure 14: Evaluation of the AEC function of a GSM Terminal with
Handsfree Car-kit

**Remark:** these both schemes set up the problem of the UPCMI
connections to the inputs or outputs of the AEC processing modules
integrated in the existing GSM terminals. In order to make the
measurements applicable it is necessary to dispose of the Rin/Sout
digital signals measures just before/after the encoding/decoding blocks.

If the GSM terminal is equipped of a Handsfree car-kit, generally AEC
processing is performed in the external box and it is easier to pick-up
these signals. However in future terminals it is foreseeable to have all
digital AEC processing within the MS itself, but in this case the
signals measures will present same constraints as previously.

### 4.3.4 Subjective tests

#### 4.3.4.1 Subjective opinion tests

The approved subjective methods which are used to determine the quality
performance of a given telephone connection are described in
Recommendation P.800. Two categories of tests are identified:
Conversation Opinion Tests and Listening Opinion Tests. Conversation
Tests are intended to reproduce as far as possible in the laboratory
situation the actual service conditions experienced by customers. They
are mandatory to estimate the effect of degradation\'s linked to the
two-way connection: talking degradation, e.g. sidetone and echo, and
conversation degradation, e.g. propagation time, mutilation of speech by
the action of voice operated devices; which are typically degradation\'s
for handsfree telephone. Listening only tests or one-way listening tests
have been extensively used when the degradation factors to be studied
affect only the listening of customers.

##### 4.3.4.1.1 Listening opinion tests

Several methods are recommended and fully described in Annexe B to Annex
F of ITU-T Recommendation P.800. Among these methods, the two most
frequently used are the ACR (Absolute Category Rating) and the DCR
(Degradation Category Rating) methods which are both category-judgements
methods. One collects the subject' vote on a five-point Quality Scale
(ACR), the other on a five-point Degradation Scale (DCR). For both
procedures, a strict control of all experimental factors (from speech
samples used for recordings to orders of presentation) through
experimental design allows to obtain reliable results, which are, thus,
statically validated. Naive or non-experienced subjects are used for the
evaluation.

##### 4.3.4.1.2 Conversation Opinion Tests

This procedure is an interactive evaluation procedure involving two
participants: a talker and a listener. They are both placed in a
controlled environment and invited to hold conversations with the help
of a proposed conversation task. At the end of this exchange, they are
individually asked to assess the perceived quality of the communication.
Various 5-point category judgements are used; two opinion scales are
recommended in P.800, Annex A: the classic Quality scale and a
Difficulty scale (binary response to the question:\"Did you or your
partner have any difficulty in talking or hearing over the connection
?\".

Certain listening laboratories use more than two scales, typically a
questionnaire with half a dozen items. CNET recommends a multicretiria
approach where descriptive criteria are grouped together and the use of
a minimum of a quality scale and of two impairment scales, namely an
echo annoyance scale and a noise annoyance scale. The impairment scale
is taken out the DCR method but its application to the conversation
situation differs from the recommended procedure for the listening tests
in that no explicit good quality reference is introduced prior to each
evaluation. The experimental design followed to run this type of tests
should be the n x n graeco-latin square, suitable to take into account
four variables with the same degree of freedom (n-1): test condition,
order of presentation, conversation task and subject. It is necessary to
stress the point that the choice of an experimental design and of the
subsequent model for variance analysis determine completely the effects
which could be estimated from a statistical point of view.

In its normalised version for purpose of overall quality evaluation,
non-experienced subjects are used for these tests. It is possible to
conduct simplified conversation tests with different applications:
diagnostic or validation of the device under test. In this specific
case, professional subjects (operators of telephonometry, experts,..)
give their opinion on several criteria; no graeco-latin square design is
requested, only one conversation task is used. These simplified tests
are not normalised and not statistically validated (4 or 5 collected
votes only).

##### 4.3.4.1.3 Proposed test method

The proposed methodology adapted from the Ultimate Test Set is not
normalised and even not yet validated. This set of tests should be
considered as diagnostic tests such as those run during the development
phase of a coder which are not documented in ITU-T. The procedure uses
five point category-judgement scales which should be conformed to
recommended existing ones: quality, listening effort (and derived
talking effort) impairment scale, difficulty scale, loudness preference,
etc. The fact that no experimental design, and thus, no control of
experimental variables are given, along with the small number of
collected votes do not allow a statistical justification of the results.

It should be noted that, within ITU-T SG 12, a new recommendation which
requires similar methodological clarification, is under study in
Question 14/12. The future recommendation (P.SEEC Speech Evaluation of
Echo Canceller) is devoted to the evaluation of the quality performance
of echo cancellers and will form a basis of work on other active signal
processing devices as those implemented in handsfree terminals. A
provisional list of subjective possible procedures along with their
applications has been already elaborated which try to prioritize the
different methodologies, e.g. Conversation Tests, Talking &and Listening
Tests, Third Party Listening Tests, depending of their specific goals,
e.g. Overall Opinion and/or Quality, Diagnostic, Parameter Value
Selection.

It is clearly said in the reports of ITU-T SG12 Question 14/12 on this
matter that the unique reference will always be the \"true, classic\"
conversation test, as the only one test and that the relationship
between Conversation MOS scores and other results should be understood
and firmly stated.

#### 4.3.4.2 Subjective tests extracted from \"Ultimate test set\"

The following subclause presents a summary of Race R2072 WP2.2
contribution titled \"The Ultimate Test Set\".

This text defines several tests:

\- Objective tests;

\- Subjective tests:

\- Talker test comprises tests that should reveal any degradations that
will hinder the talker in speaking;

\- Listener test aims at revealing any degradations that will hinder the
listener in listening.

Part 1 is described in the following (speech and silence; CVC). Part
2:see ITU-T Recommendation.

\- Interactive test (interruption and interaction) is designed to assess
the communication link when talker and listener are involved in a highly
interactive test, where the respective roles of talker and listener are
frequently swapping;

\- Conversation test should reveal the subjective quality of the link
when it is used in a normal conversation. (See ITU-T Recommendation
P.800).

The subjective tests, except those defined in the ITU-T recommendations
are described in annex A.

**1) Talker test**

Table 10: Talker test

  ---------------- -------------------
  Test Type        Parameters tested
  Free monologue   Noise
  Counting test    Echo
  ---------------- -------------------

The test can be performed by experimented subjects. It is recommended
that at least four different talkers (two male, 2 female).

The listener can be replaced by a HATS.

**2) Listener test**

Table 11: Listener test

  -------------------- ----------------------- ----------------------------------------
  Test type            Ambient noise           Parameters tested
  Speech and silence                           Echo
  Speech and silence   distant ambient noise   Influence of the distant ambient noise
  Logatoms (CVC)                               DAV
  -------------------- ----------------------- ----------------------------------------

The test can be performed by experimented subjects. It is recommended
that at least four different talkers (two male, 2 female).

The talker can be replaced by a HATS placed in the standard conditions.

**3) Interaction and interruption tests**

The test is made between two partners. It is mainly performed to test
the behaviour of speech processor included in the handsfree terminal.
Both subjects have active parts, they are faced to two simultaneous
tasks, ex: counting and listening. This is difficult task which cannot
be asked to naive subjects. Moreover, the evaluation criteria related to
voice suppression, voice clipping, etc, is out of the possible
interpretation of non experienced subjects.

According to the classification achieved in ITU-T SG 12 Question 14/12 ,
this test should remain a diagnostic tool performed by experts.

######### Annex A: Subjective Tests from UTS

**Talker test / Slow counting**

The purpose of the test is to reveal degradations that hamper the talker
in speaking. The talker is asked to slowly count out from 1 to 20 and to
answer to the following questionnaire:

*Q 1. Did you hear any echo* ?

  ------- -----------------------------------------
  Score   Echo annoyance
  5       degradation is inaudible
  4       degradation is audible but not annoying
  3       degradation is slightly annoying
  2       degradation is annoying
  1       degradation is very annoying
  ------- -----------------------------------------

*Q 2. How would you rate the quality of the connection from the p*oint
of view of a talker?

  ------- ---------------
  Score   Quality Scale
  5       excellent
  4       good
  3       fair
  2       poor
  1       bad
  ------- ---------------

**Talker test / Free monologue**

It is asked to have a free monologue. You are completely free in
choosing whatever you find meaningful to test the quality. For example,
you could whisper, make an exclamation or just talk n a normal manner.
While talking, you should listen for any degradations causing difficulty
in talking.

> *Q 3. What is your opinion on the amount of effort required to talk
> caused by the presence of any n*oise: hum, clicks, beeps or tones?

  ------- -----------------------------------------------------
  Score   Talking effort scale
  5       complete relaxation possible, no effort required
  4       attention necessary, no appreciable effort required
  3       moderate effort required
  2       considerable effort required
  1       extreme effort: talking impossible
  ------- -----------------------------------------------------

Q 4. How would you rate the quality of the connection from the point of
view of a talker?

  ------- ---------------
  Score   Quality scale
  5       excellent
  4       good
  3       fair
  2       poor
  1       bad
  ------- ---------------

**Listener test / Speech and silence test**

You are going to hear 4 samples of speech and silence. After listening
to each sample, answer to the questionnaires.

Q 5. Did you hear any echo?

  ---------- ---------- ---------- ---------- -----------------------------------------
  Score                                       
  Sample 1   Sample 2   Sample 3   Sample 4   Impairment scale:Echo annoyance
  5          5          5          5          degradation is inaudible
  4          4          4          4          degradation is audible but not annoying
  3          3          3          3          degradation is slightly annoying
  2          2          2          2          degradation is annoying
  1          1          1          1          degradation is very annoying
  ---------- ---------- ---------- ---------- -----------------------------------------

Q 6. How would you rate the quality of the connection from the point of
view of a listener?

  ---------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ---------------
  Score                                       
  Sample 1   Sample 2   Sample 3   Sample 4   Quality Scale
  5          5          5          5          excellent
  4          4          4          4          good
  3          3          3          3          fair
  2          2          2          2          poor
  1          1          1          1          bad
  ---------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ---------------

> Q 7. What is your opinion on the amount of effort required to talk
> caused by the presence of any noise: hum, clicks, beeps or tones?

  ---------- ---------- ---------- ---------- -----------------------------------------------------
  Score                                       
  Sample 1   Sample 2   Sample 3   Sample 4   Listening effort scale
  5          5          5          5          complete relaxation possible, no effort required
  4          4          4          4          attention necessary, no appreciable effort required
  3          3          3          3          moderate effort required
  2          2          2          2          considerable effort required
  1          1          1          1          extreme effort
  ---------- ---------- ---------- ---------- -----------------------------------------------------

Ambient noise is generated in the distant room

Q 8. How do you perceive the distant ambient noise?

  ---------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ---------------------------------------------------
  Score                                       
  Sample 1   Sample 2   Sample 3   Sample 4   Impairment scale: distant ambient noise annoyance
  5          5          5          5          *degradation is inaudible*
  4          4          4          4          *degradation is audible but not annoying*
  3          3          3          3          *degradation is slightly annoying*
  2          2          2          2          *degradation is annoying*
  1          1          1          1          *degradation is very annoying*
  ---------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ---------------------------------------------------

**Listener Test / CVC**

The test is designed to test the Voice Activity Detector (VAD)

*Q 9. What is your opinion on the amoun*t of listening effort?

  ------- -----------------------------------------------------
  Score   Listening effort scale
  5       complete relaxation possible, no effort required
  4       attention necessary, no appreciable effort required
  3       moderate effort required
  2       considerable effort required
  1       extreme effort
  ------- -----------------------------------------------------

**Interuption test**

At the other side of the telephone connection, a talker is continuously
generating speech. You are asked to interrupt the talker by uttering
sounds like \"uuhu\", \"yes\", \"mmm\",\...to detect degradations caused
by the equipment.

*Q 10. How do you rate the amou*nt of voice suppression ?

  ------- -----------------------------------------------
  Score   Voice suppression perception
  5       no voice suppression perceived
  4       voice suppression is audible but not annoying
  3       voice suppression is slightly annoying
  2       voice suppression is annoying
  1       voice suppression is very annoying
  ------- -----------------------------------------------

Q 11. How would you rate the overall communication quality ?

  ------ ---------------
  Note   Quality scale
  5      excellent
  4      good
  3      fair
  2      poor
  1      bad
  ------ ---------------

**Interaction Test/ Counting test**

The two partners are at each side of the link and are asked to take
turns uttering the numbers from 1 to 20 (one uttering the even, the
other the odd numbers) as quickly as possible. The counting can be
repeated as often as the partners consider necessary. While counting
they should listen for degradations caused by voice clipping and delay.

*Q 12. H*ow would you rate the amount of voice clipping?

  ------- ----------------------------------------------------------------
  Score   Amount of voice clipping
  5       no voice clipping perceived
  4       voice clipping is audible but does not influence the task
  3       voice clipping slightly causes difficulty to perform the task
  2       voice clipping causes considerable effort to perform the task
  1       voice clipping causes extreme effort: no conversation possible
  ------- ----------------------------------------------------------------

Q 13. Do you perceive any delay?

  ------- -------------------------------------------------------
  Score   Amount of delay
  5       no delay perceived
  4       delay perceived but does not influence the task
  3       delay slightly causes difficulty to perform the task
  2       delay causes considerable effort to perform the task
  1       delay causes extreme effort: no conversation possible
  ------- -------------------------------------------------------

Q 14. How would you rate the overall communication quality?

  ------- ---------------
  Score   Quality scale
  5       excellent
  4       good
  3       fair
  2       poor
  1       bad
  ------- ---------------

######### Annex B: Bibliography

B.1 References of TD presented in SMG2/ad hoc 03.50 meetings
============================================================

30/95. FT/CNET/ Monfort:Analysis of information available on handsfree
in mobile (vehicle) environment.

9/94. Telia/ Karlsson: Measurement on a GSM handsfree telephone).

58/95. BT/ Goetz: Handsfree test environment.

42/95 FT/CNET/ Monfort: Test to be applied to ETS 300 540.

49/95. BT/ Goetz: Advisory text for installation of handsfree MS in a
vehicle environment.

60/95. Head Acoustics/ Gierlich: Cost estimation for a vehicle simulator
for handsfree testing.

12/95. Matra Communications/ J. Boudy: Additional speech processing
delay for the use of Handsfree.

23/95. Matra Communications/ J. Boudy: Delay figures for HF processing.

35/95. Matra Communications/ J. Boudy: Additional delay for HF
processing.

77/95. Ericsson: Extra delay for handsfree signal processing.

41/95 Matra Communications/ J. Boudy: Evaluation methodology for full
duplex acoustic echo controllers developed within Freetel Project.

11/94. BT/I.Goetz: Assessing GSM speech quality.

B.2 References from subclause 4.1
=================================

**\[1\] Background acoustic noise reduction in mobile telephony**. R.A.
Goubran, H.M. Hafez. 36th IEEE Vehicle Technology Conference.

**\[2\] Speech enhancement for mobile telephony**. M.M. Goulding, J.
Bird. IEEE Transactions on vehicular technology, Vol 39, N°4, November
1990. p 316-326.

**\[3\] Contribution à l\'amélioration des performances d\'un
radiotelephone mains-libres à commande vocale**. C. Baillargeat. Thésis
(18 April 1991).

**\[4\] Acoustic noise analysis and speech enhancement for mobile radio
applications**. N. Dal Degan, C. Prati. Signal Processing 15, N°1, July
1988, p43-56.

**\[5\] On the influence of front end processing schemes on the GSM
codec behaviour in the context of handsfree radiotelephony.** P.
Scalart, A. Benamar.

**\[6\] Noise spectra** CCITT blue book, 1988, Volume 5. Supplement
n°13.

**\[7\] Binaural Measurements of loudness as a parameter in the
evaluation of sound quality in automobiles**. Greg Michel, Gordon
Ebbitt, Bruel and Kjaer Instruments Inc.

**\[8\] Hands-free and handset mobile telephoning: simulated in situ
assessment of telephonic signals and noise using HATS**. Bruel & Kjaer.
CCITT COM XII-51. July 1990.

**\[9\] Subjective evaluation of quality in car hands-free
radiotelephone situation.** France Télécom/CNET. CCITT SG XII.,D.95,
Brasilia, September 1991.

**\[10\] Subjective evaluation of quality of communications in car
hands-free radiotelephone context**. UIT-T Com 12-12, March 1993.
France.

B.3 References from subclause 4.2.1
===================================

**\[1\] State of art in Acoustic Echo Cancellation** .A. Gilloire, E.
Moulines, D.Slosk, P. Duhamel. Published in \"Digital signal processing
in telecommunications\".

B.4 References from subclause 4.3.1
===================================

\"Sound Fields Around the Head/Handset System And Their Exploitation For
Pressure Gradient Noise Cancellation\": M.P. Hollier, Institute Of
Acoustics Proceedings Vol. 12, Part 10 (1990).

\"Communications in noise - a performance ranking metric\", Hollier M P,
Guard D R, Hawksford M O, BT Technology Journal, Vol. 10, N° 4, October
1992.

\'Outline Proposal For A Noise Rejection Specification For 1/2-Rate
GSM\' M. Hollier, BTL, Tdoc SMG-02 03.50 32/95.

\"Echo Loss Of GSM Mobiles\"; I. Goetz, SMG-02 03.50 Tdoc 4/93.

\"Speech & Speech Model Signals: A Comparison\" ITU-TS SGXII Q7/12 &
13/12 Contribution 14, March 1993.

B.5 References from subclause 4.3.3
===================================

**\[1\] \"The Ultimate Test Set\",** RACE R2072 WP2.2 Contribution, PTT
Research, Holland.

**\[2\] \"Status of the Standardization activities on Acoustic Echo
Control\",** A. Gilloire, Signal Processing, nø27, pp.273-279, 1992.

**\[3\] \"Performance Evaluation of Acoustic Echo Control: Required
Values and Measurements Procedures\",** A. Gilloire, 3rd Int. Workshop
on Acoustic Echo Control, Sep. 93, Lannion-France.

**\[4\] \"EVALUATION METHODOLOGY FOR FULL-DUPLEX ACOUSTIC ECHO
CONTROLLERS\"** Contribution ITU-T COM 12-40 (September 1994)), Source:
FREETEL Project.

**\[5\] \"FREETEL FINAL REPORT \",** ESPRIT IV Project n° 6166.

######## Annex C (informative): Change history

  ---------- ----------- -------- ----------- ---------- --------------- -------------------------------------------------------------
  **SPEC**   **SMG\#**   **CR**   **PHASE**   **VERS**   **NEW\_VERS**   **SUBJECT**
  03.58      s23         new      R97         2.0.0      5.0.0           Handsfree test methods
  03.58      s26                  R97         5.0.0      6.0.0           R97 version change
  03.58      s26                  R97         6.0.0      6.0.1           Editorial changes for publication
  03.58      s29                  R98                    7.0.0           Specification version upgrade to Release 1998 version 7.0.0
  03.58      S31                  R99                    8.0.0           Specification version upgrade to Release 1999 version 8.0.0
  ---------- ----------- -------- ----------- ---------- --------------- -------------------------------------------------------------

  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------ --------- ---------
  **Change history**                                                                                     
  **Date**             **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**      **Old**   **New**
  03-2001              11                                             Version for Release 4              4.0.0
  06-2002                                                             Version for Release 5    4.0.0     5.0.0
  12-2004              26                                             Version for Release 6    5.0.0     6.0.0
  06-2007              36                                             Version for Release 7    6.0.0     7.0.0
  12-2008              42                                             Version for Release 8    7.0.0     8.0.0
  12-2009              46                                             Version for Release 9    8.0.0     9.0.0
  03-2011              51                                             Version for Release 10   9.0.0     10.0.0
  09-2012              57                                             Version for Release 11   10.0.0    11.0.0
  09-2014              65                                             Version for Release 12   11.0.0    12.0.0
  12-2015              70                                             Version for Release 13   12.0.0    13.0.0
  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------ --------- ---------

  -------------------- --------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                            
  **Date**             **Meeting**     **TDoc**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**              **New version**
  03-2017              SA\#75                                                  Version for Release 14           14.0.0
  06-2018              SA\#80          \-         \-       \-        \-        Version for Release 15           15.0.0
  06-2020              SA\#88-e                                                Version for Release 16           16.0.0
  01-2021              Post SA\#88-e                                           Correct Version for Release 16   16.1.0
  -------------------- --------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------- -----------------

[^1]: FREETEL : enhancement of handsFREE TELecommunications, project
    n°6166 funded by the ESPRIT III programme.
