![](media/image1.wmf){width="7.0875in" height="0.9722222222222222in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#abbreviations)

[5](#general)

[5](#specifications-and-reports)

[6](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Abbreviations 4 General 5 Specifications and Reports Annex A
(informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document identifies the 3GPP system specifications for
Release 16. The specifications and reports of this Release have a major
version number 16 (i.e. 16.x.y). The listed Specifications are required
to build a system based on GERAN radio technology.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \" Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TR 21.900: \"Technical Specification Group working methods\".

3 Abbreviations
===============

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] apply.

4 General
=========

The numbering scheme for specifications is described in 3GPP TR 21.900
\[2\].

5 Specifications and Reports
============================

NOTE 1: The \"for publication?\" column of the table below indicates
whether or not the documents are intended for adoption by the partner
Standards Development Organizations as their own publications. Those
marked \"no\" are internal working documents of the 3GPP TSGs.

NOTE 2: Some of the algorithm specifications in the 35.‑series are
available only under licence.

NOTE 3: \"Type\" indicates Technical Specification (TS) or Technical
Report (TR).

NOTE 4: For definition of \"freezing\" of specifications (last two
columns), see 3GPP TS 21.900 \[2\].

The list of Technical Specifications and Technical Reports can be found
at:\
[www.3gpp.org/dynareport/SpecList.htm?release=Rel-16&tech=1](http://www.3gpp.org/dynareport/SpecList.htm?release=Rel-16&tech=1).

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                      

  **Date**             **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                                                 **New version**

  2001-06              SP-12        SP-010278      \-       \-        First draft                                                         3GPP TS 41.103\
                                                                                                                                          version\
                                                                                                                                          0.0.0

  2001-06-20           SP-12        SP-010384                         updates table of specs                                              0.1.0

  2001-09-12           SP-13        SP-010421                         updates table of specs                                              1.0.0

  2002-03-04           SP-15        SP-020098                         updates table of specs; adds columns for freeze info                1.1.0

  2002-03-13           SP-15        SP-020203                         updates table of specs                                              1.2.0

  2002-06-03           SP-16        SP-020274                         updates table of specs, minor corrections                           2.0.0

  2002-06-11           SP-16        SP-020401                         updates table of specs, minor corrections                           2.1.0

  2002-06-12           SP-16        SP-020411                         updates table of specs; sets unknown freeze target dates blank      2.2.0

                       SP-16                                          approved                                                            5.0.0

  2002-09              SP-17        SP-020616      001      1         update list of specs; editorial corrections to spec titles          5.1.0

  2002-12              SP-18        SP-020833      002      1         Correction to list of specs, editorial corrections to spec titles   5.2.0

  2003-03              SP-19        SP-030077      003      1         Correction to list of specs, editorial corrections to spec titles   5.3.0

  2003-06              SP-20        SP-030229      004                Correction to list of specs                                         3GPP TS 41.101\
                                                                                                                                          version\
                                                                                                                                          5.4.0

                                    SP-030235                         Renumber from 41.103 to 41.101                                      

  2003-12              SP-22        SP-030574      001                Correction to list of specs, editorial corrections to spec titles   5.5.0

  2004-01                                                             Correction to typo in previous line of this table.                  5.5.1

  2004-01                                                             Correction to typo on cover page                                    5.5.2

  2004-03              SP-23        SP-040221      003                Corrections to list of specifications                               5.6.0

  2004-06              SP-24        SP-040358      005                Corrections to list of specifications                               5.7.0

  2004-09              SP-25        SP-040604      007                Corrections to list of specifications                               5.8.0

  2004-12              SP-26        SP-040880      009      1         Corrections to list of specifications                               6.0.0

  2005-03              SP-27        SP-050126      012                Corrections to list of specifications                               6.1.0

  2005-06              SP-28        SP-050356      013                Corrections to list of specifications                               6.2.0

  2005-09              SP-29        SP-050470      014                Change instances of Release 5 to Release 6                          6.3.0

                                    SP-050462      016                Corrections to list of specifications                               

  2005-12              SP-30        SP-050845      017      1         Corrections to list of specifications                               6.4.0

  2006-03              SP-31        SP-060167      019                Corrections to list of specifications                               6.5.0

  2006-09              SP-33        SP-060613      020                Corrections to list of specifications                               6.6.0

  2006-12              SP-34        SP-060901      021                Correction to list of Specs                                         6.7.0

  2007-03              SP-35        SP-070188      024                Correction to list of Specs                                         6.8.0

  2007-06              SP-36        SP-070344      025                Correction to list of Specs                                         6.9.0

  2007-09              SP-37        SP-070519      026                Upgrade to Rel-7                                                    7.0.0

  2007-12              SP-38        SP-070770      030                Correction to list of Specs                                         7.1.0

                                                   034                Update of informative text                                          

  2008-12              SP-42        SP-080722      035      1         Correction to list of Specs                                         7.2.0

  2009-03              SP-43        SP-090033      038      1         List of Rel-8 specifications                                        8.0.0

  2009-06              SP-44        SP-090382      039      1         Correction to list of specifications                                8.1.0

  2009-12              SP-46        SP-090695      044      1         Correction to list of specifications                                8.2.0

  2010-03              SP-47        SP-10012       045                Update list of specs                                                9.0.0

  2011-03              SP-51                                          Upgrade on freezing of Release                                      10.0.0

  2011-06              SP-52        SP-110298      047                Correction to list of specifications                                10.1.0

  2012-03              SP-55        SP-120114      051      1         Changes to list of Specs: GERAN systems                             10.2.0

  2013-03              SP-59        SP-130155      052                Update to list of specs                                             10.3.0

  2013-03              SP-59        SP-130155      053                Update to list of specs                                             11.0.0

  2014-06              SP-64        SP-140200      55                 Update to list of specs                                             11.1.0
  -------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------

  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------ -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                                                   
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**    **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                                      **New version**
  2016-03              SA\#71        SP-160129   0057               F         Update to list of specs                                                  12.0.0
  2016-05                                                                     Deletion of blank table in clause 5                                      12.0.1
  2016-12              SA\#74        SP-160972   0058     1         F         Update to list of specs                                                  13.0.0
  2017-03              SA\#75                                                 Promotion to Release 14 without technical change                         14.0.0
  2017-06              SA\#76        SP-170458   0059               F         Replace list of specs with pointer to web page showing up to date list   14.1.0
  2018-06              SA\#80                                                 Promotion to Release 15 without technical change                         15.0.0
  2018-06                                                                     Include v15.0.0 line accidentally omitted from change history            15.0.1
  2020-07              SA\#88-e                                               Upgrade on freezing of Release 16.                                       16.0.0
  -------------------- ------------- ----------- -------- --------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------ -----------------
