![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="1.0979166666666667in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#abbreviations)

[6](#principles-for-the-use-of-ranap-on-the-einterface)

[6](#general)

[6](#transfer-of-ranap-layer-3-messages-on-the-einterface)

[6](#roles-of-3g_msca-3g_msci-and-3g_msct)

[7](#use-of-the-ranap-on-the-einterface)

[7](#rab-assignment)

[7](#rab-release-request)

[8](#iu-release-request)

[8](#relocation-resource-allocation)

[8](#relocation-cancel)

[8](#relocation-detect-and-relocation-complete)

[9](#cn-trace-invocation)

[9](#security-mode-control)

[9](#location-reporting-control)

[9](#location-report)

[9](#direct-transfer)

[10](#error-indication)

[10](#cn-deactivate-trace)

[10](#common-id)

[10](#location-related-data)

[10](#ue-specific-information)

[10](#rab-modification-request)

[11](#ranap-messages-transferred-on-the-einterface)

[12](#exceptions-for-ranap-message-contents-and-information-element-coding-when-transferred-on-the-einterface)

[12](#message-contents)

[12](#ranap-message-error-handling-when-transferred-on-the-einterface)

[13](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Abbreviations 4 Principles for the use of RANAP on the E‑interface 4.1
General 4.2 Transfer of RANAP layer 3 messages on the E‑interface 4.3
Roles of 3G\_MSC‑A, 3G\_MSC‑I and 3G\_MSC‑T 5 Use of the RANAP on the
E‑interface 5.1 RAB Assignment 5.2 RAB Release Request 5.3 Iu Release
Request 5.4 Relocation Resource Allocation 5.5 Relocation Cancel 5.6
Relocation Detect and Relocation Complete 5.7 CN Trace invocation 5.8
Security mode control 5.9 Location Reporting Control 5.10 Location
Report 5.11 Direct Transfer 5.12 Error Indication 5.13 CN Deactivate
Trace 5.14 Common ID 5.15 Location Related Data 5.16 UE Specific
Information 5.17 RAB Modification Request 6 RANAP messages transferred
on the E‑interface 7 Exceptions for RANAP message contents and
information element coding when transferred on the E‑interface 7.1
Message Contents 8 RANAP message error handling when transferred on the
E‑interface Annex A (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document describes the subset of Radio Access Network
Application Part (RANAP) messages and procedures, defined in 3GPP TS
25.413 \[4\], which is used on the E‑interface. A general description
can be found in 3GPP TS 23.002 \[7\] and 3GPP TS 23.009 \[2\].

For the initiation and execution of relocation of SRNS (relocation for
short, throughout the whole document) between MSCs a subset of RANAP
procedures are used. For the subsequent control of resources allocated
to the User Equipment (UE) RANAP procedures are used. The Direct
Transfer Elementary Procedure (EP) of RANAP, is used for the transfer of
connection management and mobility management messages between the UE
and the controlling 3G\_MSC.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 23.009: \"Handover procedures\".

\[3\] Void

\[4\] 3GPP TS 25.413: \"UTRAN Iu Interface Radio Access Network
Application Part (RANAP) signalling\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification\".

\[6\] 3GPP TS 29.010: \"Information element mapping between Mobile
Station - Base Station System (MS - BSS) and Base Station System -
Mobile-services Switching Centre (BSS - MSC); Signalling procedures and
the Mobile Application Part (MAP)\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network architecture\".

\[8\] Void

3 Abbreviations
===============

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations defined in
TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply:

3G\_MSC A third generation Mobile services Switching Centre that
supports the Iu interface (and possibly also the A-interface)

3G\_MSC-A The controlling 3G\_MSC on which the call was originally
established

3G\_MSC-B The 3G\_MSC to which the UE is handed over in a Basic Handover

3G\_MSC-B\' The 3G\_MSC to which the UE is handed over in a Subsequent
Handover

3G\_MSC-I Interworking 3G\_MSC

3G\_MSC-T Target 3G\_MSC

EP Elementary Procedure

NNSF NAS Node Selection Function

RNC Radio Network Controller

4 Principles for the use of RANAP on the E‑interface
====================================================

4.1 General
-----------

The mechanism for the transfer of the RANAP messages on the E‑interface
is defined in TS 29.002 \[5\]. The operation of the relocation
procedures between 3G\_MSCs and the use of the RANAP messages for those
procedures is described in TS 23.009 \[2\] and TS 29.010 \[6\].

RANAP is defined to connect the RNS to both, the cs and ps domain of an
UMTS CN. Procedures, messages and IEs, only defined for communication
between the RNS and the ps domain of an UMTS CN will, of course, never
appear on the E-interface.

In the same way as a the connection oriented service of SCCP is used for
the messages relating to one UE on the 3G\_MSC‑RNS interface a TCAP
dialogue is used on the E‑interface for messages relating to one UE. As
no correspondence to the connectionless service on the 3G\_MSC‑RNS
interface is used on the E‑interface none of the global procedures are
applicable.

The management of the terrestrial circuits between the 3G\_MSCs is
outside the scope of the E‑interface (see TS 23.009 \[2\]), therefore
all procedures, messages and information elements relating to
terrestrial circuits are also excluded from the RANAP procedures and
messages used on the E‑interface.

4.2 Transfer of RANAP layer 3 messages on the E‑interface
---------------------------------------------------------

The RANAP data which on the 3G\_MSC‑RNS interface is contained in the
user data field of the exchanged SCCP frames is on the E‑interface
transferred as the contents of the access network signalling info in the
AN‑APDU parameter as described in TS 29.002 \[5\], indicating the access
network protocol identification \"ts3G-25413\".

4.3 Roles of 3G\_MSC‑A, 3G\_MSC‑I and 3G\_MSC‑T
-----------------------------------------------

For the description in the present document, the 3G\_MSC\'s
functionality related to the relocation between 3G\_MSCs has been split
into three logical parts, 3G\_MSC‑A, 3G\_MSC‑T and 3G\_MSC‑I. The
different roles need not necessarily be performed by different 3G\_MSCs.

3G\_MSC‑A is the call/connection controlling part of the 3G\_MSC where
the call/connection was originally established and the switching point
for relocation between 3G\_MSCs. (This corresponds to 3G\_MSC‑A as
defined in TS 23.009 \[2\] and TS 29.002 \[5\]). The 3G\_MSC that is the
3G\_MSC‑A will not be changed during the duration of a call/connection.

3G\_MSC‑T is the part relating to the transitory state during the
relocation for the 3G\_MSC controlling the RNS the serving RNS
functionality is relocated to, when basic relocation or subsequent
relocation (see TS 23.009) take place. (This corresponds, depending on
the type of relocation to 3G\_MSC‑A, 3G\_MSC‑B or 3G\_MSC‑B\' in TS
23.009 \[2\] and TS 29.002 \[5\]).

3G\_MSC‑I is the part of a 3G\_MSC through which the 3G\_MSC‑A, via an
E‑interface (or an internal interface) is in contact with the UE. (This
corresponds, depending on the type of relocation to 3G\_MSC‑A, 3G\_MSC‑B
or 3G\_MSC‑B\' in TS 23.009 \[2\] and TS 29.002 \[5\]).

The 3G\_MSC that is the 3G\_MSC‑A can also have the role of either the
3G\_MSC‑I or the 3G\_MSC‑T during a period of the call/connection.

The following is applicable for the involved 3G\_MSCs concerning the
exchange of RANAP data on an E‑interface before and after a successful
inter 3G\_MSC relocation:

1\) At basic relocation, two 3G\_MSCs are involved, one 3G\_MSC being
3G\_MSC‑A and one being 3G\_MSC‑T. When this relocation has been
performed, the two 3G\_MSCs interworking on the E‑interface have the
roles of 3G\_MSC‑A and 3G\_MSC‑I respectively, i.e. the 3G\_MSC that is
the 3G\_MSC‑T during the relocation is now the 3G\_MSC‑I.

2\) At subsequent relocation back to 3G\_MSC‑A, two 3G\_MSCs are
involved. The 3G\_MSC having the role of 3G\_MSC‑A has also the role of
3G\_MSC‑T. The other 3G\_MSC involved has the role of 3G\_MSC‑I. When
this relocation has been completed, there is no exchange of RANAP data
on the E‑interface, i.e. the 3G\_MSC being the 3G\_MSC‑I before and
during the relocation is now no longer taking part.

3\) At subsequent relocation of SRNS to an 3G\_MSC not being 3G\_MSC‑A,
three 3G\_MSCs are involved. The roles of these 3G\_MSCs are 3G\_MSC‑A,
3G\_MSC‑I, and 3G\_MSC‑T respectively. When this relocation has been
performed, the two 3G\_MSCs interworking on an E‑interface have the
roles of 3G\_MSC‑A and 3G\_MSC‑I respectively, i.e. the 3G\_MSC that is
the 3G\_MSC‑T during the relocation is now the 3G\_MSC‑I and the 3G\_MSC
being 3G\_MSC‑I during the relocation is now no longer taking part.

5 Use of the RANAP on the E‑interface
=====================================

The dedicated RANAP procedures used on the E‑interface to some extent
are:

\- RAB assignment;

\- RAB Release Request;

\- Iu Release Request;

\- Relocation resource allocation;

\- Relocation Detect;

\- Relocation Complete;

\- Relocation Cancel;

\- CN Invoke Trace;

\- Security mode control;

\- Location Reporting Control;

\- Location Report;

\- Direct Transfer;

\- Error Indication;

\- Common ID;

> \- Location Related Data;

\- UE Specific Information;

\- RAB Modification Request.

5.1 RAB Assignment
------------------

The RAB Assignment procedure (TS 25.413 \[4\] subclause 8.2) is applied
on the E‑interface with following conditions:

\- the 3G\_MSC‑A acts as the 3G\_MSC;

\- the 3G\_MSC‑I acts as the RNS.

The handling of terrestrial resources is not applicable, i.e. the RANAP
IEs *Transport Layer Address* and *Iu Transport Association* will be
assigned by the 3G\_MSC-I.

5.2 RAB Release Request
-----------------------

For the RAB Release Request procedure (TS 25.413 \[4\] subclauses 8.3)
the involved 3G\_MSCs shall act according to the following:

\- the 3G\_MSC‑I acts as the RNS;

\- the 3G\_MSC‑A acts as the 3G\_MSC.

5.3 Iu Release Request
----------------------

For the Iu Release Request procedure (TS 25.413 \[4\] subclause 8.4) the
involved 3G\_MSCs shall act according to the following:

\- the 3G\_MSC‑I acts as the RNS;

\- the 3G\_MSC‑A acts as the 3G\_MSC.

Additionally, at basic Inter‑3G\_MSC relocation and at subsequent
Inter‑3G\_MSC relocation (TS 23.009 \[2\]), if the 3G\_MSC that is the
3G\_MSC‑A is not also the 3G\_MSC‑T, the Iu Release Request procedure
(TS 25.413 \[4\] subclause 8.4) is applied on the E‑interface with the
following conditions:

\- the 3G\_MSC‑T acts as the RNS;

\- the 3G\_MSC‑A acts as the 3G\_MSC.

5.4 Relocation Resource Allocation
----------------------------------

At basic Inter‑3G\_MSC relocation (TS 23.009 \[2\]) the Relocation
Resource Allocation procedure (TS 25.413 \[4\] subclause 8.7) is applied
on the E‑interface with the following conditions:

\- the 3G\_MSC‑A acts as the 3G\_MSC;

\- the 3G\_MSC‑T acts as the target RNS.

At subsequent Inter‑3G\_MSC relocation the Relocation Resource
Allocation procedure is applied on the E‑interface with the following
conditions:

\- the 3G\_MSC‑I acts as the 3G\_MSC;

\- the 3G\_MSC‑T acts as the target RNS;

\- if the 3G\_MSC that is the 3G\_MSC‑A is not also the 3G\_MSC‑T, then
this 3G\_MSC shall act as the target RNS towards the 3G\_MSC‑I and as
the 3G\_MSC towards the 3G\_MSC‑T.

The handling of terrestrial resources is not applicable, i.e. the RANAP
IEs *Transport Layer Address* and *Iu Transport Association* will be
assigned by the 3G\_MSC-T.

In case NNSF is active, the *Iu Signalling Connection Identifier* IE and
the *Global CN ID* IE shall be set by the 3G\_MSC\_T towards Target RNC.

5.5 Relocation Cancel
---------------------

For subsequent Inter-3G\_MSC relocation the Relocation Cancel procedure
(TS 25.413 \[4\] subclause 8.10) is applied on the E-interface with the
following conditions.

\- the 3G\_MSC‑A, acts as the 3G\_MSC;

\- the 3G\_MSC‑I, acts as the serving RNS.

5.6 Relocation Detect and Relocation Complete
---------------------------------------------

For the Relocation Detect and Relocation Complete procedure (TS 25.413
\[4\] subclauses 8.8 and 8.9) the applicable parts on the E‑interface
are the transfer of RELOCATION DETECT, RELOCATION COMPLETE messages at
inter 3G\_MSC relocation. For those parts, the involved 3G\_MSCs shall
act according to the following:

\- the 3G\_MSC‑A acts as the 3G\_MSC;

\- the 3G\_MSC‑T acts as the target RNS.

5.7 CN Trace invocation
-----------------------

For the CN Trace invocation procedure (TS 25.413 \[4\], subclause 8.17),
the involved 3G\_MSCs shall act according to the following:

\- the 3G\_MSC‑A acts as the 3G\_MSC;

\- the 3G\_MSC‑I acts as the RNS.

Additionally, at basic Inter‑3G\_MSC relocation and at subsequent
Inter‑3G\_MSC relocation (TS 23.009 \[2\]), if the 3G\_MSC that is the
3G\_MSC‑A is not also the 3G\_MSC‑T, the CN Trace invocation procedure
(TS 25.413 \[4\], subclause 8.17) is applied on the E‑interface with the
following conditions:

\- the 3G\_MSC‑A acts as the 3G\_MSC;

\- the 3G\_MSC‑T acts as the RNS.

5.8 Security mode control
-------------------------

For the Security mode control procedure (TS 25.413 \[4\], subclause
8.18), the involved 3G\_MSCs shall act according to the following:

\- the 3G\_MSC‑A acts as the 3G\_MSC;

\- the 3G\_MSC‑I acts as the RNS.

5.9 Location Reporting Control
------------------------------

For the Location Reporting Control procedure (TS 25.413 \[4\], subclause
8.19), the involved 3G\_MSCs shall act according to the following:

\- the 3G\_MSC‑A acts as the 3G\_MSC;

\- the 3G\_MSC‑I acts as the RNS.

Additionally, at basic Inter‑3G\_MSC relocation and at subsequent
Inter‑3G\_MSC relocation (3GPP TS 23.009 \[2\]), if the 3G\_MSC that is
the 3G\_MSC‑A is not also the 3G\_MSC‑T, the Location Reporting Control
procedure (TS 25.413 \[4\] subclause 8.19) is applied on the E‑interface
with the following conditions:

\- the 3G\_MSC‑A acts as the 3G\_MSC;

\- the 3G\_MSC‑T acts as the RNS.

5.10 Location Report
--------------------

For the Location Report procedure (TS 25.413 \[4\], subclause 8.20, the
involved 3G\_MSCs shall act according to the following:

\- the 3G\_MSC‑A acts as the 3G\_MSC;

\- the 3G\_MSC‑I acts as the RNS.

5.11 Direct Transfer
--------------------

For the Direct Transfer procedure (TS 25.413 \[4\], subclause 8.23), the
involved 3G\_MSCs shall act according to the following:

\- the 3G\_MSC‑A acts as the 3G\_MSC;

\- the 3G\_MSC‑I acts as the RNS.

5.12 Error Indication
---------------------

For the Error Indication procedure (TS 25.413 \[4\], subclause 8.27),
the involved 3G\_MSCs shall act according to the following:

\- the 3G\_MSC‑A acts as the 3G\_MSC;

\- the 3G\_MSC‑I acts as the RNS.

5.13 CN Deactivate Trace
------------------------

For the CN Deactivate Trace procedure procedure (TS 25.413 \[4\],
subclause 8.28), the involved 3G\_MSCs shall act according to the
following:

\- the 3G\_MSC‑A acts as the 3G\_MSC;

\- the 3G\_MSC‑I acts as the RNS.

5.14 Common ID
--------------

For the Common ID procedure (TS 25.413 \[4\], subclause 8.16), the
involved 3G MSCs shall act according to the following:

\- the 3G\_MSC‑A acts as the 3G\_MSC;

\- the 3G\_MSC‑I acts as the RNS.

5.15 Location Related Data
--------------------------

For the Location Related Data procedure (TS 25.413 \[4\], subclause
8.31), the involved 3G\_MSCs shall act according to the following:

\- the 3G\_MSC‑A acts as the 3G\_MSC;

\- the 3G\_MSC‑I acts as the RNS.

5.16 UE Specific Information
----------------------------

For the UE Specific Information procedure (TS 25.413 \[4\], subclause
8.33), the involved 3G MSCs shall act according to the following:

\- the 3G\_MSC‑A acts as the 3G\_MSC;

\- the 3G\_MSC‑I acts as the RNS.

5.17 RAB Modification Request
-----------------------------

For the RAB Modification Request procedure (TS 25.413 \[4\], subclause
8.30), the involved 3G MSCs shall act according to the following:

\- the 3G\_MSC‑A acts as the 3G\_MSC;

\- the 3G\_MSC‑I acts as the RNS.

6 RANAP messages transferred on the E‑interface
===============================================

The list given below shows the RANAP messages, defined in TS 25.413
\[4\] subclause 9.1(tabular format) and 9.3 (ASN.1 notation) that are
transferred on the E‑interface.

RAB ASSIGNMENT REQUEST (3G\_MSC‑A ‑\> 3G\_MSC‑I)

RAB ASSIGNMENT RESPONSE (3G\_MSC‑I ‑\> 3G\_MSC‑A)

RAB RELEASE REQUEST (3G\_MSC‑I ‑\> 3G\_MSC‑A)

IU RELEASE REQUEST (3G\_MSC‑I ‑\> 3G\_MSC‑A and 3G\_MSC‑T ‑\> 3G\_MSC‑A)

\* RELOCATION REQUEST (3G\_MSC‑A ‑\> 3G\_MSC‑T and 3G\_MSC‑I ‑\>
3G\_MSC‑A)

\* RELOCATION REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE (3G\_MSC‑T ‑\> 3G\_MSC‑A and 3G\_MSC‑A
‑\> 3G\_MSC‑I)

\* RELOCATION DETECT (3G\_MSC‑T ‑\> 3G\_MSC‑A)

\* RELOCATION COMPLETE (3G\_MSC‑T ‑\> 3G\_MSC‑A)

\* RELOCATION FAILURE (3G\_MSC‑T ‑\> 3G\_MSC‑A and 3G\_MSC‑A ‑\>
3G\_MSC‑I)

> \* RELOCATION CANCEL (3G\_MSC‑I ‑\> 3G\_MSC‑A)

\* RELOCATION CANCEL ACKNOWLEDGE (3G\_MSC‑A ‑\> 3G\_MSC‑I)

\# CN INVOKE TRACE (3G\_MSC-A -\> 3G\_MSC-I and 3G\_MSC‑A ‑\> 3G\_MSC‑T)

SECURITY MODE COMMAND (3G\_MSC-A -\> 3G\_MSC-I)

SECURITY MODE COMPLETE (3G\_MSC-I -\> 3G\_MSC-A)

SECURITY MODE REJECT (3G\_MSC-I -\> 3G\_MSC-A)

LOCATION REPORTING CONTROL (3G\_MSC-A -\> 3G\_MSC-I and 3G\_MSC‑A ‑\>
3G\_MSC‑T)

LOCATION REPORT (3G\_MSC-I -\> 3G\_MSC-A)

DIRECT TRANSFER (3G\_MSC-A -\> 3G\_MSC-I and 3G\_MSC-I -\> 3G\_MSC-A)

ERROR INDICATION (3G\_MSC-A -\> 3G\_MSC-I and 3G\_MSC-I -\> 3G\_MSC-A)

\# CN DEACTIVATE TRACE (3G\_MSC-A -\> 3G\_MSC-I)

COMMON ID (3G\_MSC-A -\> 3G\_MSC-I)

LOCATION RELATED DATA REQUEST (3G\_MSC-A -\> 3G\_MSC-I)

LOCATION RELATED DATA RESPONSE (3G\_MSC-I -\> 3G\_MSC-A)

LOCATION RELATED DATA FAILURE (3G\_MSC-I -\> 3G\_MSC-A)

UE SPECIFIC INFORMATION INDICATION (3G\_MSC-A -\> 3G\_MSC-I)

RAB MODIFY REQUEST (3G\_MSC-I -\> 3G\_MSC-A)

All other RANAP messages shall be considered as non‑existent on the
E‑interface.

Some of the messages above are qualified by \* or \#. This indicates
whether the message, when sent on the E interface, is considered as:

\- relocation related message (\*); or

\- trace related message (\#).

7 Exceptions for RANAP message contents and information element coding when transferred on the E‑interface
==========================================================================================================

7.1 Message Contents
--------------------

For the applicable RANAP messages transferred on the E‑interface the
following exceptions to the descriptions in TS 25.413 \[4\] are valid:

RAB ASSIGNMENT REQUEST message

\- Transport Layer Address IE:

> if received, this IE shall be ignored;

\- Iu Transport Association IE:

> if received, this IE shall be ignored;

\- UP Mode Versions IE:

> the information given within this IE is only useful in case of TrFO.

RELOCATION REQUEST message

\- Transport Layer Address IE:

> if received, this IE shall be ignored;

\- Iu Transport Association IE:

> if received, this IE shall be ignored;

\- UP Mode Versions IE:

> the information given within this IE is only useful in case of TrFO;

\- Iu Signalling Connection Identifier *IE*:

> if received, this IE shall be ignored;

\- Global CN ID *IE*:

> if received, this IE shall be ignored.

8 RANAP message error handling when transferred on the E‑interface
==================================================================

The RANAP error handling (TS 25.413 \[4\], clause 10) is applicable. The
handling of faults concerning the use of SCCP is not applicable.

The RANAP error messages sent on the E‑interface shall only be sent as
response to RANAP messages received on the same interface.

######## Annex A (informative): Change history

+-----------+---------+-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Change    |         |     |           |           |           |
| history   |         |     |           |           |           |
+-----------+---------+-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| TSG RAN\# | Version | CR  | Tdoc RAN  | New       | Subjec    |
|           |         |     |           | Version   | t/Comment |
+-----------+---------+-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| RAN\_08   | 2.0.0   | \-  | RP-000258 | 3.0.0     | Approved  |
|           |         |     |           |           | at TSG    |
|           |         |     |           |           | RAN \#8   |
|           |         |     |           |           | and       |
|           |         |     |           |           | placed    |
|           |         |     |           |           | under     |
|           |         |     |           |           | Change    |
|           |         |     |           |           | Control   |
+-----------+---------+-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| RAN\_10   | 3.0.0   | 001 | RP-000634 | 3.1.0     | Approved  |
|           |         |     |           |           | at TSG    |
|           |         | 002 |           |           | RAN \#10  |
+-----------+---------+-----+-----------+-----------+-----------+

  ---------------- -------- ----------- ----- ----- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------- --------
  Change history                                                                                                                        
  Date             TSG \#   TSG Doc.    CR    Rev   Subject/Comment                                                            Old      New
  03/2001          11       \-          \-          Approved at TSG RAN \#11 and placed under Change Control                   \-       4.0.0
  09.2001          13       RP-010590   004         Iu Signalling Connection identifier on E-i/f                               4.0.0    4.1.0
  03/2002          15       \-          \-          Approved at TSG RAN \#15 and placed under Change Control                   4.1.0    5.0.0
  06/2002          16       RP-020416   007         Location Related Data procedure missing                                    5.0.0    5.1.0
  12/2002          18       RP-020755   010   1     Explicit indication of relocation related messages                         5.1.0    5.2.0
  03/2003          19       RP-030079   013   1     Corrections to the list of RANAP messages transferred on the E-interface   5.2.0    5.3.0
  12/2003          22       \-          \-    \-    Introduction of Release 6 specification                                    5.3.0    6.0.0
  06/2004          24       RP-040177   015   \-    PUESBINE support over E-interface                                          6.0.0    6.1.0
  03/2005          27       RP-050120   017   \-    Full RANAP support of network initiated SCUDIF                             6.1.0    6.2.0
  03/2006          31       \-          \-    \-    Introduction of Release 7 specification                                    6.2.0    7.0.0
  06/2003          32       RP-060278   019   \-    Iu-Flex for Inter-3G\_MSC Relocation                                       7.0.0    7.1.0
  12/2008          42                               Upgrade to Release 8 without technical change                              7.1.0    8.0.0
  12/2009          \-       \-          \-    \-    Upgrade to Release 9 without technical change                              8.0.0    9.0.0
  03/2011                                           Upgrade to Release 10 without technical change                             9.0.0    10.0.0
  06/2011          52       RP-110684   020         Corrections of References                                                  10.0.0   10.1.0
  09/2012                                           Update to Rel-11 version (MCC)                                             10.1.0   11.0.0
  09/2014                                           Update to Rel-12 version (MCC)                                             11.0.0   12.0.0
  12/2015                                           Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)                                             12.0.0   13.0.0
  ---------------- -------- ----------- ----- ----- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------- --------

  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  **Change history**                                                                                                            
  **Date**             **Meeting**   **TDoc**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Cat**   **Subject/Comment**                                **New version**
  2017-03              SA\#75                                                Promotion to Release 14 without technical change   14.0.0
  2018-07              SA\#80        \-         \-       \-        \-        Promotion to Release 15 without technical change   15.0.0
  2020-07              SA\#88-e      \-         \-       \-        \-        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)                     **16.0.0**
  -------------------- ------------- ---------- -------- --------- --------- -------------------------------------------------- -----------------
