![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}

  {#section .TT}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-symbols-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[6](#abbreviations)

[6](#general)

[6](#introduction)

[6](#s102-requirements)

[6](#s102-header)

[6](#s102-messages-and-message-formats)

[6](#introduction-1)

[7](#message-formats)

[7](#s102-messages)

[7](#a21-1x-air-interface-signalling-message)

[7](#a21-ack-message)

[7](#a21-event-notification)

[7](#reliable-delivery-of-signalling-messages)

[8](#information-elements)

[8](#information-element-assignments)

[8](#a21-message-type)

[8](#correlation-id)

[8](#mobile-identity)

[8](#void)

[8](#authentication-challenge-parameter-rand)

[8](#a21-mobile-subscription-information)

[8](#cause)

[9](#a21-event)

[9](#gcsna-pdu)

[9](#gcsna-status)

[9](#reference-cell-id)

[10](#pilot-list)

[10](#void-1)

[10](#error-handling)

[10](#protocol-errors)

[10](#restoration-and-recovery)

[10](#security-provided-to-communication-over-the-s102-interface)

[10](#s102-parameters)

[10](#timers)

[10](#introduction-2)

[10](#acknowledgement-timer-tack)

[11](#annex-1-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions, symbols and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations
4 General 4.1 Introduction 4.2 S102 Requirements 5 S102 Header 6 S102
Messages and Message Formats 6.1 Introduction 6.1 Message Formats 6.2
S102 Messages 6.2.1 A21-1x Air Interface Signalling message 6.2.2
A21-Ack message 6.2.3 A21-Event Notification 6.3 Reliable Delivery of
Signalling Messages 6.4 Information Elements 6.4.1 Information Element
Assignments 6.4.1.1 A21 Message Type 6.4.1.2 Correlation ID 6.4.1.3
Mobile Identity 6.4.1.4 Void 6.4.1.5 Authentication Challenge Parameter
(RAND) 6.4.1.6 A21 Mobile Subscription Information 6.4.1.7 Cause 6.4.1.8
A21-Event 6.4.1.9 GCSNA PDU 6.4.1.10 GCSNA Status 6.4.1.11 Reference
Cell ID 6.4.1.12 Pilot List 6.4.1.13 Void 7 Error Handling 7.1 Protocol
Errors 7.2 Restoration and Recovery 8 Security provided to Communication
over the S102 Interface 9 S102 Parameters 9.1 Timers 9.1.1 Introduction
9.1.2 Acknowledgement Timer (Tack) Annex 1 (informative): Change history

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the stage 3 of the Evolved Packet System
S102 interface between the MME and the 1x CS IWS to relay the 1xCS
signalling messages documented in 3GPP TS 23.216 \[2\] and 3GPP TS
23.272 \[4\]. 1x CS signalling messages are those messages that are
defined for A21 interface as described in 3GPP2 A.S0008-D \[3\] and
3GPP2 A.S0009-D \[6\]. The S102 interface messages shall be based on A21
messages.

The S102 interface is used to support UEs that do not transmit and
receive on both the LTE and 1x radio interfaces simultaneously. S102
protocol aspects for SRVCC from E-UTRAN access to 3GPP2 1xCS is covered
in this specification. Handling of non-voice component and protocol
aspects for SRVCC from 3GPP2 1xCS to E-UTRAN direction is not specified
in this release.

The S102 interface is also used to support CS fallback to 1xRTT
procedures from E-UTRAN access to CDMA 1x RTT CS domain and to support
SMS over S102 with the CDMA 1xRTT CS domain through support of
registration over EPS procedures as specified in 3GPP TS 23.272\[4\].

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 23.216: \"Single Radio Voice Call Continuity (SRVCC)\".

\[3\] 3GPP2 A.S0008-D v1.0: \"Interoperability Specification (IOS) for
High Rate Packet Data (HRPD) Radio Access Network Interfaces with
Session Control in the Access Network\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 23.272:\" Circuit Switched Fallback in Evolved Packet
System\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 36.413: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); S1 Application Protocol (S1AP)\".

\[6\] 3GPP2 A.S0009-D v1.0: \"Interoperability Specification (IOS) for
High Rate Packet Data (HRPD) Radio Access Network Interfaces with
Session Control in the Packet Control Function\".

3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
========================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term,
if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 \[1\].

1xCS IWS 1xCS Interworking Solution function for 3GPP2 1xCS

GCSNA Generic Circuit Services Notification Application

IMSI International Mobile Station Identity

IP Internet Protocol

MEID Mobile Equipment Identity

MME Mobility Management Entity

PDU Protocol Data Unit

SRVCC Single Radio Voice Call Continuity

UDP User Datagram Protocol

4 General
=========

4.1 Introduction
----------------

The S102 application is based on UDP/IP transport medium.

S102 (MME-to-IWS) /udp/23272 - This is the registered destination UDP
port number to be used for signalling interconnection between an MME and
an IWS for the S102 application.

4.2 S102 Requirements
---------------------

There are no additional requirments to those defined in 3GPP TS 23.216
\[2\] and 3GPP2 A.S0008-D \[3\] and 3GPP2 A.S0009-D \[6\].

5 S102 Header
=============

The S102 message header shall be a fixed length header. The S102 header
shall be at least 7 octets long. Octet 1 consists of A21 Message type
and Octets 2-7 contain the Correlation Identifier.

Detailed information about the coding and format of the header fields of
the A21 messages is specified in 3GPP2 A.S0008-D \[3\] and 3GPP2
A.S0009-D \[6\].

6 S102 Messages and Message Formats
===================================

6.1 Introduction
----------------

The S102 application defines a set of messages between the MME and 1xCS
IWS to provide SR VCC and CSFB. The messages to be used are described in
the following sections.

The S102 messages shall be based on A21 messages. The following A21
messages shall be used to support interworking and CS fallback to 1x RTT
procedures between MME and 1xCS IWS.

6.1 Message Formats
-------------------

6.2 S102 Messages
-----------------

### 6.2.1 A21-1x Air Interface Signalling message

This message is A21-1x air interface signalling message specified in
3GPP2 A.S0008-D \[3\] and 3GPP2 A.S0009-D \[6\]. This message shall be
sent from an MME or 1xCS IWS to transport 1x air interface message to
the peer 1xCS IWS or MME.

The MME shall be provisioned to be able to reach a 1XCS IWS over the
S102 interface. The IWS shall then decide which MSC to contact. The MME
selects the 1XCS IWS based on the Reference Cell ID that it receives via
the eNodeB.

This message shall be used by the MME or 1xCS IWS during Registration,
paging, handover (SRVCC) procedures, and mobile originated and mobile
terminated SMS procedures.

When the MME receives a 1x air interface message from the UE that is to
be sent to 1xCS IWS, the MME encapsulates the 1x air interface message
in a A21-1x air interface signalling message and sends it to the 1xCS
IWS via the S102 interface. To support CS fallback to 1xRTT registration
procedures, it contains the CDMA 2000 sector ID.

When sent from the 1xCS IWS to the MME, the 1xCS IWS encapsulates the 1x
handoff direction message or 1xRTT CS paging request (after successful
registration for CS fallback to 1xRTT) into A21-1x air interface
signalling message.

Details about Information Element contents of A21-1x Air Interface
signalling messages are found in 3GPP2 A.S0008-D \[3\] section 5.1.6.1.

### 6.2.2 A21-Ack message

This message is A21-Ack message specified in 3GPP2 A.S0008-D \[3\] and
3GPP2 A.S0009-D \[6\]. This message shall be sent from an MME or 1xCS
IWS to acknowledge receipt of some A21 message to the peer 1xCS IWS or
MME.

The Correlation ID in a A21-Ack message shall be copied from the request
message that the MME or 1xCS IWS is replying to.

Details about Information Element contents of S102-Ack message are found
in 3GPP2 A.S0008-D \[3\] section 5.1.6.2.

### 6.2.3 A21-Event Notification

This message is A21-Event Notification message specified in 3GPP2
A.S0008-D \[3\] and 3GPP2 A.S0009-D \[6\]. This message shall be sent by
either MME or 1xCS IWS to notify the peer node of a specific event.

To support S102 tunnel redirection in case of MME relocation, \"S102
Redirection\" value shall be used.

To support notifying the 1xCS IWS, specifically if the UE switches off
or if the MME changes the UE EMM state to EMM-DEREGISTERED, i.e. if the
UE becomes unreachable, the \"Power Down/Connection Closed Event\" value
shall be used.

Details about Information Element contents of S102-Event Notification
message are found in 3GPP2 A.S0008-D \[3\] section 5.1.6.4.

6.3 Reliable Delivery of Signalling Messages
--------------------------------------------

The A21 messages are transmitted using best-effort service.

6.4 Information Elements
------------------------

### 6.4.1 Information Element Assignments

An A21 message may contain several information elements. Detailed
information about the contents of the A21 messages is specified in 3GPP2
A.S0008-D \[3\] and 3GPP2 A.S0009-D \[6\]. The following sections
highlight the relevant S102 specific parameters.

#### 6.4.1.1 A21 Message Type

This IE is used to indicate the type of message on S102 interface.
Typical values of this IE are as follows:

Table 6.4.1.1-1: A21 Message Type on S102 interface

  -------------- -----------------------------------------
  Message Type   A21 Message Name
  01H            A21-1x Air Interface Signalling message
  02H            A21-Ack message
  04H            A21-Event Notification message
  -------------- -----------------------------------------

#### 6.4.1.2 Correlation ID

This IE is used to correlate the A21 messages transported across the
S102 interface. Details of format and content of this IE are specified
in 3GPP2 A.S0008-D \[3\] and 3GPP2 A.S0009-D \[6\].

#### 6.4.1.3 Mobile Identity

This IE is used to identify the UE\'s identity. Details of format of
this IE are specified in 3GPP2 A.S0008-D \[3\] and 3GPP2 A.S0009-D
\[6\]. Typical values of this IE relevant for S102 are as follows.

Table 6.4.1.3-1: Mobile identity

+-------------------------------+-------+
| Binary                        | MN-Id |
|                               |       |
| Values                        |       |
+-------------------------------+-------+
| \'001\'                       | MEID  |
+-------------------------------+-------+
| \'110\'                       | IMSI  |
+-------------------------------+-------+
| All other values are reserved |       |
+-------------------------------+-------+

ESN value shall not be used for S102 messages.

#### 6.4.1.4 Void

#### 6.4.1.5 Authentication Challenge Parameter (RAND)

This IE contains information used for authentication over S102
interface. Details of format and contents of this IE are specified in
3GPP2 A.S0008-D \[3\] and 3GPP2 A.S0009-D \[6\].

#### 6.4.1.6 A21 Mobile Subscription Information

This IE includes mobile subscription information records. Details of
format and contents of this IE are specified in 3GPP2 A.S0008-D \[3\]
and 3GPP2 A.S0009-D \[6\].

#### 6.4.1.7 Cause

The Cause IE shall be included in the response message only if the
request is not accepted and shall be set to a value that describes the
problem encountered. Typical values of IE relevant for S102 are as
follows:

Table 6.4.1.7: Cause values for the corresponding request

  ------------------------------- -----------------------------------------
  Values                          Cause value meaning
  00H                             Unknown mobile
  01H                             Unknown cell identifier(s)
  02H                             Tunnelling of 1x messages not available
  03H                             Resources not available
  07H                             Unspecified
  08H                             Rejection
  0AH                             Abort handoff from LTE to 1x
  0BH                             Version not supported
  All other values are reserved   
  ------------------------------- -----------------------------------------

#### 6.4.1.8 A21-Event

This IE contains the value used to indicate the event that has occurred.
Typical values of IE relevant for S102 are as follows:

6.4.1.8-1: A21-Event values

  ------------------------------- ---------------------------------
  Values                          Cause value meaning
  03H                             UE Power Down/Connection Closed
  04H                             Handoff Rejected
  0BH                             S102 Redirection
  All other values are reserved   
  ------------------------------- ---------------------------------

#### 6.4.1.9 GCSNA PDU

This IE contains the GCSNA header and GCSNA information, which can be 1x
LAC encapsulated PDU or any other GCSNA information including 3G1x
parameters, to be transported over the S102 interface. The IE is passed
transparently for the MME. Details of inclusion rules, format and
contents of this IE are specified in 3GPP2 A.S0008-D \[3\] and 3GPP2
A.S0009-D \[6\].

#### 6.4.1.10 GCSNA Status

This IE contains the GCSNA status information to be transported over the
S102 interface. The MME maps the Status field values (Handoff
successful, Handoff failure) from the GCSNA Status IE to the CDMA2000 HO
Status IE (enumeration values HO Success and HO Failure, as defined in
3GPP TS 36.413 \[5\]). Details of inclusion rules, format and contents
of this IE are specified in 3GPP2 A.S0008-D \[3\] and 3GPP2 A.S0009-D
\[6\].

The Activity Type field in the 1x IWS to MME direction provides
information to the MME regarding the activity (i.e. SMS or CSFB) being
undertaken as a result of processing of the GCSNA PDU at the UE. The MME
may use the Activity Type indication received from the 1x IWS in order
to control the paging based on operator policy, such as:

-     paging retransmission strategies;

-     determining whether to send the Paging message to the eNodeBs
during certain MME high load conditions.

The Call Priority field in the 1x IWS to MME direction indicates the
priority of the activity being undertaken for CSFB Priority Call
Handling (see 3GPP TS 23.272 Annex B).

The Global Emergency Call field in the MME to 1x IWS direction indicates
whether the call is an emergency call.

#### 6.4.1.11 Reference Cell ID

This IE contains the CDMA2000 Sector ID received from S1AP and passed to
the MME from the eNB. Details of inclusion rules, format and contents of
this IE are specified in 3GPP2 A.S0008-D \[3\] and 3GPP2 A.S0009-D
\[6\].

#### 6.4.1.12 Pilot List

This IE contains the 1xRTT Pilot List passed to the MME from the eNodeB.
It is included by the MME whenever the MME receives the 1xRTT Pilot List
from the eNodeB. Details of format and contents of this IE are specified
in 3GPP2 A.S0008-D \[3\] and 3GPP2 A.S0009-D \[6\].

#### 6.4.1.13 Void

7 Error Handling
================

7.1 Protocol Errors
-------------------

A protocol error is defined as a message with unknown, unforeseen or
erroneous content. When the Tack timer expires, the sender may resend
the request to the receiver and restart the Tack timer a configurable
number of times. A cause value of \"Unspecified\" as indicated in
section 6.4.1.7 shall be included in the response message to indicate
protocol errors.

Detailed error handling procedures specific to each A21 message are
found in 3GPP2 A.S0008-D \[3\] section 2.8.2 and 3GPP2 A.S0009-D \[6\].

7.2 Restoration and Recovery
----------------------------

There are no new specific Restoration and recovery requirements to be
supported over S102 interface.

8 Security provided to Communication over the S102 Interface
============================================================

Protection of A21 communication over S102 interface shall be provided
according to security mechanisms defined in 3GPP2 A.S0008-D \[3\] and
3GPP2 A.S0009-D \[6\].

9 S102 Parameters
=================

9.1 Timers
----------

### 9.1.1 Introduction

The parameters defined here and their recommended values shall not be
fixed, but shall be possible to configure as described in section
\"Reliable delivery of messages\".

The method used for retry sending of messages on S102 shall be based on
the A21 retry method. In 3GPP2 A.S0008-D \[3\] section 2.8.2 and 3GPP2
A.S0009-D \[6\], the procedures for each of the A21 messages have a
\"Failure Operation\" section where there are references to the use of
timers and retries. In addition, there are flows in section 4.6
provided.

### 9.1.2 Acknowledgement Timer (Tack)

This timer is started when the MME or 1xCS IWS sends an A21-1x Air
interface signalling message or a A21 Event Notification message and is
stopped when the corresponding A21-Ack message is received from the peer
1xCS IWS or MME.

Further details about recommended timer values and specifics are found
in 3GPP2 A.S0008-D \[3\] section 5.3 and 3GPP2 A.S0009-D \[6\].

######## Annex 1 (informative): Change history

  --------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ---------
  :**Change history**                                                                                                                                                            
  **Date**              **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                                                                             **Old**   **New**
  2008-09               CT\#41       CP-080478                         V2.0.0 approved in CT\#41                                                                       2.0.0     8.0.0
  2008-12               CT\#42       CP-080689      0001               S102 Redirection                                                                                8.0.0     8.1.0
  2009-06               CT\#44       CP-090293      0003               Correlation ID Length                                                                           8.1.0     8.2.0
                                     CP-090293      0004     1         UDP Port Value                                                                                            
                                     CP-090293      0005     1         Support for 03H (Power Down/Connection Closed) Event Value                                                
  2009-09               CT\#45       CP-090530      0007     1         Power Down/Connection Closed Event                                                              8.2.0     8.3.0
                                     CP-090536      0008     1         Generic Circuit Services Notification Application on S102                                                 
                                     CP-090536      0009     1         Reference Cell ID on S102                                                                                 
                                     CP-090536      0010     1         Pilot List on S102                                                                                        
  2009-12               CT\#46       CP-090772      0011               S102 UDP port number                                                                            8.3.0     8.4.0
  2009-12               CT\#46       CP-090785      0012               Addition of Round Trip Delay to S102                                                                      
  2009-12               CT\#46                                         Release 9 version was created after CT\#46                                                      8.4.0     9.0.0
  2010-03               CT\#47       CP-100019      0016     2         GCSNA Status                                                                                    9.0.0     9.1.0
  2010-03               CT\#47       CP-100059      0019               Removal of E-UTRAN Round Trip Delay Estimation Info                                                       
  2010-06               CT\#48       CP-100263      0021               Correction to 3GPP2 references                                                                  9.1.0     9.2.0
                                                    0023     1         Missing 3GPP2 reference A.S0009-C                                                                         
  2011-03               \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)                                                                  9.2.0     10.0.0
  2012-06               CT\#56                      0024               Missing success code in S102                                                                    10.0.0    10.1.0
  2012-09               CT\#57       CP-120459      0025     1         GCSNA Status IE                                                                                 10.1.0    11.0.0
  2012-12               CT\#58       CP-120754      0027     \-        Removal of the \"Preemption Allowed\" and \"Queuing Allowed\" fields from the GCSNA Status IE   11.0.0    11.1.0
  2013-12               CT\#62       CP-130629      0028     \-        E-UTRAN to 3GPP2 1xCS SRVCC emergency handover                                                  11.1.0    12.0.0
  2013-12               CT\#62       CP-130626      0029     1         Cleanup Editors Note                                                                                      
  2015-12               CT\#70       \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)                                                                  12.0.0    13.0.0
  2017-03               CT\#75       \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-14 version (MCC)                                                                  13.0.0    14.0.0
  2018-06               CT\#80       \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)                                                                  14.0.0    15.0.0
  2020-07               CT\#88e      \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)                                                                  15.0.0    16.0.0
  --------------------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ---------
