![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.0875in" height="1.3652777777777778in"}

Contents {#contents .TT}
========

[4](#foreword)

[5](#scope)

[5](#references)

[5](#definitions-and-abbreviations)

[5](#definitions)

[6](#abbreviations)

[6](#gpp-mobile-ipv6-option)

[6](#general)

[6](#format)

[9](#annex-a-informative-change-history)Foreword 1 Scope 2 References 3
Definitions and abbreviations 3.1 Definitions 3.2 Abbreviations 4 3GPP
Mobile IPv6 Option 4.1 General 4.2 Format Annex A (informative): Change
History

 

Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the format and usage of the Mobile IPv6
Vendor Specific Option \[2\] within the Third Generation Partnership
Project.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a
non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that
document *in the same Release as the present document*.

\[1\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[2\] IETF RFC 5094: \"Mobile IPv6 Vendor Specific Option\".

\[3\] IANA Private Enterprise Numbers Registry,
\<http://www.iana.org/assignments/enterprise-numbers\>.

\[4\] IETF RFC 6275: \"Mobility Support in IPv6\".

\[5\] IETF RFC 5555: \"Mobile IPv6 support for dual stack Hosts and
Routers (DSMIPv6)\".

\[6\] IETF RFC 5213: \"Proxy Mobile IPv6\".

\[7\] 3GPP TS 29.275: \"Proxy Mobile IPv6 (PMIPv6) based Mobility and
Tunnelling protocols; Stage 3\".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 24.327: \"Mobility between 3GPP Wireless Local Area
Network (WLAN) interworking (I-WLAN) and 3GPP systems; General Packet
Radio System (GPRS) and 3GPP I-WLAN aspects; Stage 3\".

3 Definitions and abbreviations
===============================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. A term defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

3.2 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in
3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 \[1\].

4 3GPP Mobile IPv6 Option
=========================

4.1 General
-----------

The 3GPP Mobile IPv6 Option is a Mobile IPv6 Vendor-Specific Option as
defined by IETF RFC 5094 \[2\] using the Vendor-Id assigned to 3GPP. The
3GPP Mobile IPv6 Option is used to encode 3GPP Specific Information
Elements within the protocols based on Mobile IPv6 (MIPv6) as defined by
IETF RFC 6275 \[4\], such as the Dual Stack Mobile IPv6 (DSMIPv6) and
Proxy Mobile IPv6 (PMIPv6) protocols respectively defined by IETF RFC
5555 \[5\] and IETF RFC 5213 \[6\].

4.2 Format
----------

The format of the 3GPP Mobile IPv6 Option is shown in table 4.2-1. The
defined 3GPP Specific Information Elements are listed in table 4.2-2.
The data format of a given 3GPP Specific Information Element (IE) is
defined in the specification defining its usage, as indicated in table
4.2-2.

  -------- -------------------------------- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
  Bits                                                              
  Octets   8                                7   6   5   4   3   2   1
  1        Type                                                     
  2        Length                                                   
  3        Vendor Id (1^st^ Octet)                                  
  4        Vendor Id (2^nd^ Octet)                                  
  5        Vendor Id (3^rd^ Octet)                                  
  6        Vendor Id (4^th^ Octet)                                  
  7        Sub-Type                                                 
  8        Reserved                         M                       
  9-n      3GPP Specific IE Data Fragment                           
  -------- -------------------------------- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---

Figure 4.2-1: 3GPP Mobile IPv6 Option

Table 4.2-1: Fields in a 3GPP Mobile IPv6 Option

  ---------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------
  Field                                          Content                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Reference
  Type                                           Value is decimal 19 the assigned value for the Vendor-Specific mobility option                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RFC 5094 \[2\]
  Length                                         An 8-bit field indicating the length of the option in octets excluding the Type and the Length fields. All other fields are included.                                                                                                                                                                                               RFC 5094 \[2\]
  Vendor ID                                      A 32-bit field. Value is set to the SMI Network Management Private Enterprise Number for 3GPP, which is decimal \"10415\".                                                                                                                                                                                                          IANA \[3\]
  Sub-Type                                       Indicate the type of the 3GPP Specific Information Element encoded by the 3GPP Mobile IPv6 Option.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RFC 5094 \[2\]
  Reserved                                       Value set to zero by sender and ignored by receiver.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Defined here
  More 3GPP Specific IE Data Fragment (M) Flag   Value set to \"1\" if this instance of the 3GPP Mobile IPv6 Option is followed by another 3GPP Mobile IPv6 Option encoding the follow up 3GPP Specific IE data fragment that does not fit in this instance of the 3GPP Mobile IPv6 Option. Set to zero otherwise.                                                                   Defined here
  3GPP Specific IE Data Fragment                 The 3GPP Specific IE might be split over multiple 3GPP Mobile IPv6 Options in case the total length of the 3GPP Specific Information Element exceeds 248 bytes. This is the data fragment of the 3GPP Specific IE contained in this instance of the 3GPP Mobile IPv6 Option. The data fragment has a maximum length of 248 bytes.   Defined here
  ---------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------

The syntax of the 3GPP specific information element allows appending
extra octets. The receiver that does not support such appended octets
shall ignore the appended octets in order to ensure backwards
compatibility.

Table 4.2-2: Subtypes for 3GPP specific Information Elements

  -------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------
  3GPP-specific IE Subtype   3GPP-specific Information Element                        Reference
  1                          Protocol Configuration Options.                          3GPP TS 29.275 \[7\]
  2                          3GPP Specific PMIPv6 Error Code.                         3GPP TS 29.275 \[7\]
  3                          PMIPv6 PDN GW IP Address.                                3GPP TS 29.275 \[7\]
  4                          PMIPv6 DHCPv4 Address Allocation Procedure Indication.   3GPP TS 29.275 \[7\]
  5                          PMIPv6 Fully Qualified PDN Connection Set Identifier     3GPP TS 29.275 \[7\]
  6                          PMIPv6 PDN type indication.                              3GPP TS 29.275 \[7\]
  7                          Charging ID                                              3GPP TS 29.275 \[7\]
  8                          Selection Mode                                           3GPP TS 29.275 \[7\]
  9                          I-WLAN Mobility Access Point Name (APN).                 3GPP TS 24.327 \[8\]
  10                         Charging Characteristics                                 3GPP TS 29.275 \[7\]
  11                         Mobile Equipment Identity (MEI)                          3GPP TS 29.275 \[7\]
  12                         MSISDN                                                   3GPP TS 29.275 \[7\]
  13                         Serving Network                                          3GPP TS 29.275 \[7\]
  14                         APN Restriction                                          3GPP TS 29.275 \[7\]
  15                         Maximum APN Restriction                                  3GPP TS 29.275 \[7\]
  16                         Unauthenticated IMSI                                     3GPP TS 29.275 \[7\]
  17                         PDN Connection ID                                        3GPP TS 29.275 \[7\]
  18                         PGW Back-Off Time                                        3GPP TS 29.275 \[7\]
  19                         Signalling Priority Indication                           3GPP TS 29.275 \[7\]
  20                         Additional Protocol Configuration Options                3GPP TS 29.275 \[7\]
  21                         Static IP Address Allocation Indication                  3GPP TS 29.275 \[7\]
  22                         MME/SGSN Identifier                                      3GPP TS 29.275 \[7\]
  23                         End Marker Notification                                  3GPP TS 29.275 \[7\]
  24                         Trusted WLAN Mode Indication                             3GPP TS 29.275 \[7\]
  25                         UE Time Zone                                             3GPP TS 29.275 \[7\]
  26                         Access Network Identifier Timestamp                      3GPP TS 29.275 \[7\]
  27                         Logical Access ID                                        3GPP TS 29.275 \[7\]
  28                         Origination Time Stamp                                   3GPP TS 29.275 \[7\]
  29                         Maximum Wait Time                                        3GPP TS 29.275 \[7\]
  30                         TWAN Capabilities                                        3GPP TS 29.275 \[7\]
  -------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------

######## Annex A (informative): Change History

  ---------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------
  **Date**   **TSG \#**   **TSG Doc.**   **CR**   **Rev**   **Subject/Comment**                                                       **New**
  03/2009    CT\#43       CP-090057                         V1.0.0 Approved in CT\#43                                                 8.0.0
  06/2009    CT\#44       CP-090290      0001               PMIP VSO Charging Characteristics                                         8.1.0
                          CP-090290      0002     \-        Registration of new 3GPP specific PMIPv6 IEs                              
                          CP-090290      0003     2         FQ-CSID                                                                   
  09/2009    CT\#45       CP-090538      0004     1         APN Restriction for PMIPv6                                                8.2.0
                          CP-090538      0005     1         Handling future extensions of 3GPP Mobile IPv6 Options                    
  12/2009    CT\#46       CP-090801      0007     \-        Unauthenticated IMSI                                                      9.0.0
                                         0008     1         Multiple PDN to the Same APN for PMIP-based Interfaces                    
  2011-03    \-           \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-10 version (MCC)                                            10.0.0
  2011-06    CT\#52       CP-110369      0011     2         APN based congestion control                                              10.1.0
                                         0012     2         Low access priority indicator                                             
  2011-12    CT\#54       CP-110792      0015     3         Adding Additional Authentication Options IE                               10.2.0
  2012-09    CT\#57       CP-120442      0019     2         Correction to IETF Draft for TS 29.282                                    10.3.0
  2012-09    CT\#57       CP-120460      0022     \-        Correction to RFC Update for TS 29.282                                    11.0.0
  2012-12    CT\#58       CP-120729      0026     \-        Static IP Address Allocation Indication                                   11.1.0
                                         0023     1         MME/SGSN Id                                                               
  2013-09    CT\#61       CP-130464      0027     \-        Addition of End Marker Notification information element                   12.0.0
  2014-03    CT\#63       CP-140416      0028     1         Add Trusted WLAN Mode Indication IE                                       12.1.0
  2014-06    CT\#64       CP-140252      0029     1         UE Time Zone for PMIP                                                     12.2.0
                          CP-140252      0030     1         TWAN Identifier Timestamp for PMIP                                        
                          CP-140252      0032     1         Add a 3GPP specific option for PMIP for new Line Identifier               
  2015-09    CT\#69       CP-150442      0033     \-        Origination Time Stamp and Maximum Wait Time for PMIP                     13.0.0
  2015-12    CT\#70       CP-150780      0034     \-        Extensions for P-CSCF restoration for trusted and untrusted WLAN access   13.1.0
  2017-03    CT\#75       \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-14 version (MCC)                                            14.0.0
  2018-06    CT\#80       \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-15 version (MCC)                                            15.0.0
  2020-07    CT\#88e      \-             \-       \-        Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)                                            16.0.0
  ---------- ------------ -------------- -------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------
