Foreword
========

This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work
within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the
TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released
by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in
version number as follows:

Version x.y.z

where:

x the first digit:

1 presented to TSG for information;

2 presented to TSG for approval;

3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.

z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.

Introduction
============

The present document is part 1 of a multi-parts TS:

**3GPP TS 34.121-1: User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Radio
transmission and reception (FDD); Part 1: Conformance specification.**

3GPP TS 34.121-2 \[32\]: User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Radio transmission and reception (FDD); Part 2: Implementation
Conformance Statement (ICS).

NOTE: TS 34.121 has been converted to multipart TS with version 7.0.0.
Previous versions are a single part standard 34.121.

1 Scope
=======

The present document specifies the UTRA measurement procedures for the
conformance test of the user equipment (UE) that contain transmitting
characteristics, receiving characteristics and performance requirements
in addition to requirements for support of RRM (Radio Resource
Management) in FDD mode. In addition it specifies conformance testing of
RRM requirements for support of E-UTRA when the UE operates in UTRA
mode.

NOTE: Conformance testing of RRM requirements for support of UTRA when
the UE operates in E-UTRA mode are specified in TS 36.521-3 \[38\].

The requirements are listed in different clauses only if the
corresponding parameters deviate. More generally, tests are only
applicable to those mobiles that are intended to support the appropriate
functionality. To indicate the circumstances in which tests apply, this
is noted in the \"*definition and applicability*\" part of the test.

For example only Release 5 and later UE declared to support HSDPA shall
be tested for this functionality. In the event that for some tests
different conditions apply for different releases, this is indicated
within the text of the test itself.

2 References
============

The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of the present document.

-   References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
    > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.

-   For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

-   For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the
    > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document),
    > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version
    > of that document in the same Release as the present document
    > unless the context in which the reference is made suggests a
    > different Release is relevant (information on the applicable
    > release in a particular context can be found in e.g. test case
    > title, description or applicability, message description or
    > content).

\- For a Release 1999 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version
3.x.y.

\- For a Release 4 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version
4.x.y.

\- For a Release 5 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version
5.x.y.

\- For a Release 6 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version
6.x.y.

\- For a Release 7 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version
7.x.y.

\- For a Release 8 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version
8.x.y.

\- For a Release 9 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version
9.x.y.

\[1\] 3GPP TS 25.101: \"UE Radio transmission and reception (FDD)\".

\[2\] 3GPP TS 25.133: \"Requirements for Support of Radio Resource
Management (FDD)\".

\[3\] 3GPP TS 34.108: \"Common Test Environments for User Equipment (UE)
Conformance Testing\".

\[4\] 3GPP TS 34.109: \"Terminal logical test interface; Special
conformance testing functions\".

\[5\] 3GPP TS 25.214: \"Physical layer procedures (FDD)\".

\[6\] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".

\[7\] 3GPP TR 25.990: \"Vocabulary\".

\[8\] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol
Specification\".

\[9\] 3GPP TS 25.433: \"UTRAN Iub Interface NBAP Signalling\".

\[10\] ITU-R Recommendation SM.329: \"Spurious emissions\".

\[11\] 3GPP TS 25.304: \"UE Procedures in Idle Mode and Procedures for
Cell Reselection in Connected Mode\".

\[12\] 3GPP TS 25.303: \"Interlayer Procedures in Connected Mode\".

\[13\] 3GPP TS 25.321: \"Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol
specification\".

\[14\] 3GPP TS 25.213: \"Spreading and modulation (FDD)\".

\[15\] 3GPP TS 25.223: \"Spreading and modulation (TDD)\".

\[16\] ETSI ETR 273-1-2: \"Improvement of radiated methods of
measurement (using test sites) and evaluation of the corresponding
measurement uncertainties; Part 1: Uncertainties in the measurement of
mobile radio equipment characteristics; Sub-part 2: Examples and
annexes\".

\[17\] 3GPP TR 25.926: \"UE Radio Access Capabilities\".

\[18\] 3GPP TR 21.904: \"UE capability requirements\".

\[19\] 3GPP TS 25.211: \"Physical channels and mapping of transport
channels onto physical channels (FDD)\".

\[20\] 3GPP TS 05.08 (R99): \"Technical Specification Group GSM/EDGE
Radio Access Network; Radio subsystem link control\".

\[21\] 3GPP TS 34.123-1: \"User Equipment (UE) Conformance
Specification; Part 1: Protocol Conformance Specification\".

\[22\] 3GPP TS 25.215: \"Physical Layer - Measurements (FDD)\".

\[23\] Void

\[24\] 3GPP TR 34.902: \"Derivation of test tolerances for multi-cell
Radio Resource Management (RRM) conformance tests \".

\[25\] 3GPP TS 51.010-1: \"Mobile Station (MS) conformance
specification; Part 1: Conformance specification \".

\[26\] 3GPP TS 25.307 \"Requirements on UEs supporting a release
independent frequency band\".

\[27\] ITU-T recommendation O.153: \"Basic parameters for the
measurement of error performance at bit rates below the primary rate\".

\[28\] 3GPP TS 05.05 (R99): \"Technical Specification Group GSM/EDGE
Radio Access Network; Radio transmission and reception\".

\[29\] 3GPP TS 45.005 (Rel-4 and later releases): \"Technical
Specification Group GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network; Radio transmission
and reception\".

\[30\] 3GPP TS 45.008 (Rel-4 and later releases): \"Technical
Specification Group GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network; Radio subsystem link
control\".

\[31\] 3GPP TS 25.212: \"Multiplexing and channel coding (FDD)\".

\[32\] 3GPP TS 34.121-2: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance
specification; Radio transmission and reception (FDD); Part 2:
Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS)\".

\[33\] 3GPP TS 36.508: \"Technical Specification Group Radio Access
Network; E-UTRA and EPC; Common test environments for User Equipment
(UE)\".3 Definitions, symbols, abbreviations and equations

\[34\] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"E-UTRA requirements for support of radio
resource management\".

\[35\] 3GPP TS 36.211: \"Physical Channels and Modulation\".

\[36\] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"E-UTRA Radio Resource Control (RRC): protocol
specification\".

\[37\] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"E-UTRA UE radio transmission and reception\".

\[38\] 3GPP TS 36.521-3: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Radio
transmission and reception; Part 3: Radio Resource Management (RRM)
conformance testing\".

3 Definitions, symbols, abbreviations and equations
===================================================

3.1 Definitions
---------------

Definitions, symbols, abbreviations and equations used in the present
document are listed in TR 21.905 \[5\] and TR 25.990 \[6\].

Terms are listed in alphabetical order in this clause.

For the purpose of the present document, the following terms and
definitions apply:

**Maximum Output Power:** This is a measure of the maximum power the UE
can transmit (i.e. the actual power as would be measured assuming no
measurement error) in a bandwidth of at least (1+ α) times the chip rate
of the radio access mode. The period of measurement shall be at least
one timeslot.

For DC-HSUPA the maximum output power is defined by the sum of the
broadband transmit power of each carrier in the UE.

**Nominal Maximum Output Power:** This is the nominal power defined by
the UE power class.

**Mean power:** When applied to a W-CDMA modulated signal this is the
power (transmitted or received) in a bandwidth of at least (1+ α) times
the chip rate of the radio access mode. The period of measurement shall
be at least one timeslot unless otherwise stated.

**RRC filtered mean power:** The mean power as measured through a root
raised cosine filter with roll-off factor α and a bandwidth equal to the
chip rate of the radio access mode.

NOTE 1: The RRC filtered mean power of a perfectly modulated W-CDMA
signal is 0.246 dB lower than the mean power of the same signal.

NOTE 2: The roll-off factor α is defined in 3GPP TS 25.101 clause 6.8.1.

**RegDTX: Regular DTX. These are the times when the HS-DPCCH ACK/NACK is
not expected to be transmitted due to an Inter-TTI period greater than
1.**

**statDTX: Statistical DTX. These are the times when the HS-DPCCH is
expected to transmit an ACK or NACK but none is transmitted due to the
UE not being able to decode consistent control information from the
HS\_SCCH.**

**Throughput: Number of information bits per second excluding CRC bits
successfully received on HS-DSCH by a HSDPA capable UE.**

**Enhanced performance requirements type 1: This defines performance
requirements which are optional for the UE. The requirements are based
on UEs which utilise receiver diversity.**

**Enhanced performance requirements type 2: This defines performance
requirements which are optional for the UE. The requirements are based
on UEs which utilise a chip equaliser receiver structure.**

**Enhanced performance requirements type 3: This defines performance
requirements which are optional for the UE. The requirements are based
on UEs which utilise a chip equaliser receiver structure with receiver
diversity.**

**Enhanced performance requirements type 3i:** This defines performance
requirements which are optional for the UE, The requirements are based
on UEs which utilise an interference-aware chip equaliser receiver
structure with receiver diversity.

3.2 Symbols
-----------

For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:

\[...\] Values included in square bracket must be considered for further
studies, because it means that a decision about that value was not taken

3.3 Abbreviations
-----------------

For the purpose of the present document, the following abbreviations
apply:

**ACLR** Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio

ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity

**AFC Automatic Frequency Control**

**AICH** Acquisition Indication Channel

**ASD Acceleration Spectral Density**

**ATT Attenuator**

**BER Bit Error Ratio**

**BLER Block Error Ratio**

**BTFD Blind Transport Format Detection**

**CQI Channel Quality Indicator**

**CW** Continuous Wave (un-modulated signal)

DB-DC-HSDPA Dual Band Dual Cell HSDPA

DC-HSDPA Dual Cell HSDPA

DCH Dedicated Channel, which is mapped into Dedicated Physical Channel

DIP Dominant Interferer Proportion ratio

DL Down Link (forward link)

DTX Discontinuous Transmission

DPCCH Dedicated Physical Control Channel

DPCH Dedicated Physical Channel

DPDCH Dedicated Physical Data Channel

E-DCH Enhanced Dedicated Channel

E-AGCH E-DCH Absolute Grant Channel

E-HICH E-DCH HARQ ACK Indicator Channel

E-RGCH E-DCH Relative Grant Channel

EIRP Effective Isotropic Radiated Power

**EVM Error Vector Magnitude**

FACH Forward Access Channel

FDD Frequency Division Duplex

**FDR False transmit format Detection Ratio.** A false Transport Format
detection occurs when the receiver detects a different TF to that which
was transmitted, and the decoded transport block(s) for this incorrect
TF passes the CRC check(s)

HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request

HSDPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access

HS-DSCH High Speed Downlink Shared Channel

HS-PDSCH High Speed Physical Downlink Shared Channel

HS-SCCH High Speed Shared Control Channel

**HYB Hybrid**

Information Data Rate\
Rate of the user information, which must be transmitted over the Air
Interface. For example, output rate of the voice codec

**IM Intermodulation**

**ITP Initial Transmission Power control mode**

MBSFN MBMS over a Single Frequency Network

MER Message Error Ratio

MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output

Node B A logical node responsible for radio transmission / reception in
one or more cells to/from the User Equipment. Terminates the Iub
interface towards the RNC

**OBW Occupied Bandwidth**

**OCNS Orthogonal Channel Noise Simulator, a mechanism used to simulate
the users or control signals on the other orthogonal channels of a
downlink**

**PAR Peak to Average Ratio**

**P-CCPCH Primary Common Control Physical Channel**

**PCH** Paging Channel

**P-CPICH Primary Common Pilot ChannelPCDE Peak Code Domain Error**

PICH Paging Indicator Channel

PPM Parts Per Million

R Number of information bits per second excluding CRC bits successfully
received on HS-DSCH by a HSDPA capable UE.RACH Random Access Channel

**RBW Resolution Bandwidth**

PRBS Pseudo Random Bit Sequence

**regDTX Regular DTX**

**RRC Root-Raised Cosine**

**S-CCPCH Secondary Common Control Physical Channel**

**S-CPICH Secondary Common Pilot Channel**

**SCH Synchronisation Channel consisting of Primary and Secondary
synchronisation channels**

SG Serving Grant

SIR Signal to Interference ratio

SML Soft Metric Location (Soft channel bit)

**SS System Simulator**; see Annex A for description

**statDTX Statistical DTX**

STTD Space Time Transmit Diversity

TDD Time Division Duplexing

TFC Transport Format Combination

TFCI Transport Format Combination Indicator

**TGCFN Transmission Gap Connection Frame Number**

**TGD Transmission Gap Distance**

**TGL Transmission Gap Length**

**TGPL Transmission Gap Pattern Length**

**TGPRC Transmission Gap Pattern Repetition Count**

TGSN Transmission Gap Starting Slot Number

TPC Transmit Power Control

TSTD Time Switched Transmit Diversity

UE User Equipment

UL Up Link (reverse link)

UTRA UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access

3.4 Equations
-------------

For the purpose of the present document, the following additional
equations apply:

$\frac{\text{CPICH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ The ratio of the received energy
per PN chip of the CPICH to the total transmit power spectral density at
the Node B (SS) antenna connector.

![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.6666666666666666in"
height="0.20208333333333334in"} Average energy per PN chip for DPCH.

$\ \frac{\text{DPCH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ The ratio of the transmit
energy per PN chip of the DPCH to the total transmit power spectral
density at the Node B (SS) antenna connector.

$\ \frac{\text{DPCCH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ The ratio of the transmit
energy per PN chip of the DPCCH to the total transmit power spectral
density at the Node B (SS) antenna connector.

$\ \frac{\text{DPDCH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ The ratio of the transmit
energy per PN chip of the DPDCH to the total transmit power spectral
density at the Node B (SS) antenna connector

![](media/image2.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.25in"}
Average energy per PN chip.

![](media/image3.wmf){width="0.26458333333333334in" height="0.4375in"}
The ratio of the average transmit energy per PN chip for different
fields or physical channels to the total transmit power spectral
density.

Fuw Frequency of unwanted signal. This is specified in bracket in terms
of an absolute frequency(s) or a frequency offset from the assigned
channel frequency. For DC-HSDPA, negative offset refers to the assigned
channel frequency of the lowest carrier frequency used and positive
offset refers to the assigned channel frequency of the highest carrier
frequency used. For DB-DC-HSDPA, offset refers to the assigned channel
frequencies of the individual cells.

INode\_B Interference signal power level at Node B in dBm, which is
broadcasted on BCH.

![](media/image4.wmf){width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.25in"} The
total received power spectral density, including signal and
interference, as measured at the UE antenna connector.

Ioac The power spectral density (integrated in a bandwidth of (1+α)
times the chip rate and normalized to the chip rate) of the adjacent
frequency channel as measured at the UE antenna connector.

Ioc The power spectral density (integrated in a noise bandwidth equal to
the chip rate and normalized to the chip rate) of a band limited white
noise source (simulating interference from cells, which are not defined
in a test procedure) as measured at the UE antenna connector. For
DC-HSDPA and DB-DC-HSDPA,
![](media/image5.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in" height="0.25in"}is
defined for each of the cells individually and is assumed to be equal
for both cells unless explicitly stated per cell.

I~oc~' The received power spectral density (integrated in a noise
bandwidth equal to the chip rate and normalized to the chip rate) of the
summation of the received power spectral densities of the two strongest
interfering cells plus Ioc as measured at the UE antenna connector. The
respective power spectral density of each interfering cell relative to
Ioc' is defined by its associated DIP value.

Ior The total transmit power spectral density (integrated in a bandwidth
of (1+α) times the chip rate and normalized to the chip rate) of the
downlink signal at the Node B antenna connect. For DC-HSDPA and
DB-DC-HSDPA, ![](media/image6.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.25in"}is defined for each of the cells individually and is
assumed to be equal for both cells unless explicitly stated per cell. Or

Îor The received power spectral density (integrated in a bandwidth of
(1+α) times the chip rate and normalized to the chip rate) of the
downlink signal as measured at the UE antenna connector For DC-HSDPA and
DB-DC-HSDPA, ![](media/image7.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.2777777777777778in"} is defined for each of the cells
individually and is assumed to be equal for both cells unless explicitly
stated per cell.

Iotx The power spectral density (integrated in a noise bandwidth equal
to the chip rate and normalized to the chip rate) of a band limited
white noise source (simulating Node B transmitter impairments) as
measured at the Node B transmit antenna connector(s). For DC-HSDPA and
DB-DC-HSDPA, $I_{\text{otx}}$ is defined for each of the cells
individually and is assumed to be equal for both cells unless explicitly
stated per cell.).

Iouw Unwanted signal power level.

![](media/image8.wmf){width="0.5513888888888889in"
height="0.17569444444444443in"} Average energy per PN chip for the OCNS.

![](media/image9.wmf){width="0.6354166666666666in"
height="0.34305555555555556in"} The ratio of the average transmit energy
per PN chip for the OCNS to the total transmit power spectral density.

*P-CCPCH\_Ec* Average (note) energy per PN chip for P-CCPCH.

$P - \text{CCPCH}\ \frac{E_{c}}{I_{o}}$ The ratio of the received
P-CCPCH energy per chip to the total received power spectral density at
the UE antenna connector.

$\frac{P - \text{CCPCH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ The ratio of the average
(note) transmit energy per PN chip for the P-CCPCH to the total transmit
power spectral density.

*P-CPICH\_Ec* Average (note) energy per PN chip for P-CPICH.

*PICH\_Ec* Average (note) energy per PN chip for PICH.

$\frac{\text{PICH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ The ratio of the received energy
per PN chip of the PICH to the total transmit power spectral density at
the Node B (SS) antenna connector.

R Number of information bits per second excluding CRC bits successfully
received on HS-DSCH by a HSDPA capable UE.

\<REFSENS\> Reference sensitivity

\<REF${\hat{I}}_{\text{or}}$\> Reference ${\hat{I}}_{\text{or}}$

![](media/image10.wmf){width="0.5888888888888889in"
height="0.13333333333333333in"} Secondary Common Control Physical
Channel.

![](media/image11.wmf){width="0.7805555555555556in" height="0.1625in"}
Average energy per PN chip for S-CCPCH.

*SCH\_Ec* Average (note) energy per PN chip for SCH.

*S-CPICH\_Ec* Average (note) energy per PN chip for S-CPICH.

NOTE: Averaging period for energy/power of discontinuously transmitted
channels should be defined.

**NOTE: The units of Power Spectral Density (PSD) are extensively used
in this document. PSD is a function of** power versus frequency and when
integrated across a given bandwidth, the function represents the mean
power in such a bandwidth. When the mean power is normalised to (divided
by) the chip-rate it represents the mean energy per chip. Some signals
are directly defined in terms of energy per chip, (DPCH\_E~c~ and
P-CPICH\_E~c~) and others defined in terms of PSD (I~oac~, I~oc~, and
Î~or~). There also exist quantities that are a ratio of energy per chip
to PSD (DPCH\_E~c~/I~or~, E~c~/I~or~ etc.). This is the common practice
of relating energy magnitudes in communication systems.

It can be seen that if both energy magnitudes in the ratio are divided
by time, the ratio is converted from an energy ratio to a power ratio,
which is more useful from a measurement point of view. It follows that
an energy per chip of X dBm/3.84 MHz can be expressed as a mean power
per chip of X dBm. Similarly, a signal PSD of Y dBm/3.84 MHz can be
expressed as a signal power of Y dBm.

4 Frequency bands and channel arrangement
=========================================

4.1 General
-----------

The information presented in this clause is based on a chip rate of 3,84
Mcps. The normative reference for the frequency bands and channel
arrangement are defined is TS 25.101 \[1\], clause 5 and TS 25.307
\[26\].

NOTE: Other chip rates may be considered in future releases.

4.2 Frequency bands
-------------------

a\) UTRA/FDD is designed to operate in either of the following paired
bands:

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Operating Band       | UL Frequencies       | DL frequencies       |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | UE transmit, Node B  | UE receive, Node B   |
|                      | receive              | transmit             |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| I                    | 1920 - 1980 MHz      | 2110 - 2170 MHz      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| II                   | 1850 -1910 MHz       | 1930 - 1990 MHz      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| III                  | 1710 -1785 MHz       | 1805 - 1880 MHz      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| IV                   | 1710 -1755MHz        | 2110 - 2155MHz       |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| V                    | 824 - 849MHz         | 869 - 894MHz         |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| VI                   | 830 - 840 MHz        | 875 - 885 MHz        |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| VII                  | 2500 - 2570 MHz      | 2620 - 2690 MHz      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| VIII                 | 880 - 915 MHz        | 925 - 960 MHz        |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| IX                   | 1749.9 - 1784.9 MHz  | 1844.9 - 1879.9 MHz  |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| X                    | 1710 - 1770 MHz      | 2110 - 2170 MHz      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| XI                   | 1427.9 - 1447.9 MHz  | 1475.9 - 1495.9 MHz  |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| XII                  | 699 - 716 MHz        | 729 - 746 MHz        |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| XIII                 | 777 - 787 MHz        | 746 - 756 MHz        |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| XIV                  | 788 - 798 MHz        | 758 - 768 MHz        |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| XV                   | Reserved             | Reserved             |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| XVI                  | Reserved             | Reserved             |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| XVII                 | Reserved             | Reserved             |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| XVIII                | Reserved             | Reserved             |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| XIX                  | 830 - 845 MHz        | 875 - 890 MHz        |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| XX                   | 832 - 862 MHz        | 791 - 821 MHz        |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| XXI                  | 1447.9 - 1462.9 MHz  | 1495.9 - 1510.9 MHz  |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| XXII                 | 3410 - 3490 MHz      | 3510 - 3590 MHz      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| XXV                  | 1850 - 1915 MHz      | 1930 - 1995 MHz      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| XXVI                 | 814 - 849 MHz        | 859 - 894 MHz        |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| XXXII^1^             | N/A                  | 1452 -- 1496 MHz     |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| NOTE 1: Restricted   |                      |                      |
| to UTRA operation    |                      |                      |
| when dual band is    |                      |                      |
| configured (e.g.,    |                      |                      |
| DB-DC-HSDPA or dual  |                      |                      |
| band 4C-HSDPA). The  |                      |                      |
| down link            |                      |                      |
| frequenc(ies) of     |                      |                      |
| this band are paired |                      |                      |
| with the uplink      |                      |                      |
| frequenc(ies) of the |                      |                      |
| other FDD band       |                      |                      |
| (external) of the    |                      |                      |
| dual band            |                      |                      |
| configuration.       |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

b\) Deployment in other frequency bands is not precluded.

c\) DB-DC-HSDPA is designed to operate in the following configurations:

  --------------------------- ----------- ------------
  DB-DC-HSDPA Configuration   UL Band     DL Bands
  1                           I or VIII   I and VIII
  2                           II or IV    II and IV
  3                           I or V      I and V
  4                           I or XI     I and XI
  5                           II or V     II and V
  6                           I           XXXII
  --------------------------- ----------- ------------

d\) Single band 4C-HSDPA is designed to operate in the following
configurations:

Table 4.0A: Single band 4C-HSDPA configurations

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- -----------------------
  Single band 4C-HSDPA Configuration                                                                                                          Operating Band   Number of DL carriers
  I-3                                                                                                                                         I                3
  II-3                                                                                                                                        II               3
  II-4                                                                                                                                        II               4
  NOTE: Single band 4C-HSDPA configuration is numbered as (X-M) where X denotes the operating band and M denotes the number of DL carriers.                    
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- -----------------------

e\) Dual band 4C-HSDPA is designed to operate in the following
configurations:

Table 4.0B: Dual band 4C-HSDPA configurations

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------- ----------- --------------------------------- ----------- ---------------------------------
  Dual band 4C-HSDPA Configuration                                                                                                                                                                                                       UL Band     DL Band A   Number of DL carriers in Band A   DL Band B   Number of DL carriers in Band B
  I-2-VIII-1                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I or VIII   I           2                                 VIII        1
  I-1-VIII-2                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I or VIII   I           1                                 VIII        2
  I-2-VIII-2                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I or VIII   I           2                                 VIII        2
  I-3-VIII-1                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I or VIII   I           3                                 VIII        1
  II-1-IV-2                                                                                                                                                                                                                              II or IV    II          1                                 IV          2
  II-2-IV-1                                                                                                                                                                                                                              II or IV    II          2                                 IV          1
  II-2-IV-2                                                                                                                                                                                                                              II or IV    II          2                                 IV          2
  I-1-V-2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I or V      I           1                                 V           2
  I-2-V-1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I or V      I           2                                 V           1
  I-2-V-2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I or V      I           2                                 V           2
  II-1-V-2                                                                                                                                                                                                                               II or V     II          1                                 V           2
  I-1-XXXII-2                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I           I           1                                 XXXII       2
  I-2-XXXII-1                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I           I           2                                 XXXII       1
  NOTE: Dual band 4C-HSDPA configuration is numbered as (X-M-Y-N) where X denotes the DL Band A, M denotes the number DL carriers in the DL Band A, Y denotes the DL Band B, and N denotes the number of DL carriers in the DL Band B.                                                                         
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------- ----------- --------------------------------- ----------- ---------------------------------

4.3 TX-RX frequency separation
------------------------------

a\) UTRA/FDD is designed to operate with the following TX-RX frequency
separation.

  ---------------- ----------------------------
  Operating Band   TX-RX frequency separation
  I                190 MHz
  II               80 MHz
  III              95 MHz
  IV               400 MHz
  V                45 MHz
  VI               45 MHz
  VII              120 MHz
  VIII             45 MHz
  IX               95 MHz
  X                400 MHz
  XI               48 MHz
  XII              30 MHz
  XIII             31 MHz
  XIV              30 MHz
  XIX              45 MHz
  XX               41 MHz
  XXI              48 MHz
  XXII             100 MHz
  XXV              80 MHz
  XXVI             45 MHz
  ---------------- ----------------------------

b\) UTRA/FDD can support both fixed and variable transmit to receive
frequency separation.

c\) The use of other transmit to receive frequency separations in
existing or other frequency bands shall not be precluded.

d\) When configured to operate on dual cells, the TX-RX frequency
separation shall be applied to UL and DL with the serving HS-DSCH cell.
For band XII, XIII and XIV, the TX-RX frequency separation shall be the
minimum spacing between UL and any of DL carriers.

4.4 Channel arrangement
-----------------------

### 4.4.1 Channel spacing

The nominal channel spacing is 5 MHz, but this can be adjusted to
optimise performance in a particular deployment scenario. In DC-HSDPA
and DB-DC-HSDPA mode, the UE receives two cells simultaneously. In
context of DC‑HSDPA and DB-DC-HSDPA, a cell is characterized by a
combination of scrambling code and a carrier frequency; see TR 21.905
\[5\].

### 4.4.2 Channel raster

The channel raster is 200 kHz, for all bands which means that the centre
frequency must be an integer multiple of 200 kHz. In addition a number
of additional centre frequencies are specified according to table 4.1a,
which means that the centre frequencies for these channels are shifted
100 kHz relative to the general raster.

### 4.4.3 Channel number

The carrier frequency is designated by the UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency
Channel Number (UARFCN). For each operating Band, the values of the
UARFCN are defined as follows.

Uplink: N~U~ = 5 \* (F~UL~ - F~UL\_Offset~), for the carrier frequency
range F~UL\_low~ ≤ F~UL~ ≤  F~UL\_high~

Downlink: N~D~ = 5 \* (F~DL~ - F~DL\_Offset~), for the carrier frequency
range F~DL\_low~ ≤ F~DL~ ≤  F~DL\_high~

For each operating Band, F~UL\_Offset~, F~UL\_low~, F~UL\_high~,
F~DL\_Offset~, F~DL\_low~ and F~DL\_high~ are defined in Table 4.1 for
the general UARFCN. For the additional UARFCN, F~UL\_Offset~,
F~DL\_Offset~ and the specific F~UL~ and F~DL~ are defined in
Table 4.1A.

Table 4.1: UARFCN definition (general)

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Band    | UPLINK  | D       |         |         |         |         |
|         | (UL)    | OWNLINK |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | (DL)    |         |         |         |         |
|         | UE      |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | tr      | UE      |         |         |         |         |
|         | ansmit, | r       |         |         |         |         |
|         | Node B  | eceive, |         |         |         |         |
|         | receive | Node B  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | t       |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | ransmit |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | UARFCN  | Carrier | UARFCN  | Carrier |         |         |
|         | formula | fr      | formula | fr      |         |         |
|         | offset  | equency | offset  | equency |         |         |
|         |         | (F~UL~) |         | (F~DL~) |         |         |
|         | F~UL\_  | range   | F~DL\_  | range   |         |         |
|         | Offset~ | \[MHz\] | Offset~ | \[MHz\] |         |         |
|         | \[MHz\] |         | \[MHz\] |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         | **F~UL\ | *       |         | **F~DL\ | *       |
|         |         | _low~** | *F~UL\_ |         | _low~** | *F~DL\_ |
|         |         |         | high~** |         |         | high~** |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I       | 0       | 1922.4  | 1977.6  | 0       | 2112.4  | 2167.6  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| II      | 0       | 1852.4  | 1907.6  | 0       | 1932.4  | 1987.6  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| III     | 1525    | 1712.4  | 1782.6  | 1575    | 1807.4  | 1877.6  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| IV      | 1450    | 1712.4  | 1752.6  | 1805    | 2112.4  | 2152.6  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| V       | 0       | 826.4   | 846.6   | 0       | 871.4   | 891.6   |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| VI      | 0       | 832.4   | 837.6   | 0       | 877.4   | 882.6   |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| VII     | 2100    | 2502.4  | 2567.6  | 2175    | 2622.4  | 2687.6  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| VIII    | 340     | 882.4   | 912.6   | 340     | 927.4   | 957.6   |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| IX      | 0       | 1752.4  | 1782.4  | 0       | 1847.4  | 1877.4  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| X       | 1135    | 1712.4  | 1767.6  | 1490    | 2112.4  | 2167.6  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| XI      | 733     | 1430.4  | 1445.4  | 736     | 1478.4  | 1493.4  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| XII     | -22     | 701.4   | 713.6   | -37     | 731.4   | 743.6   |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| XIII    | 21      | 779.4   | 784.6   | -55     | 748.4   | 753.6   |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| XIV     | 12      | 790.4   | 795.6   | -63     | 760.4   | 765.6   |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| XIX     | 770     | 832.4   | 842.6   | 735     | 877.4   | 887.6   |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| XX      | -23     | 834.4   | 859.6   | -109    | 793.4   | 818.6   |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| XXI     | 1358    | 1450.4  | 1460.4  | 1326    | 1498.4  | 1508.4  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| XXII    | 2525    | 3412.4  | 3487.6  | 2580    | 3512.4  | 3587.6  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| XXV     | 875     | 1852.4  | 1912.6  | 910     | 1932.4  | 1992.6  |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| XXVI    | -291    | 816.4   | 846.6   | -291    | 861.4   | 891.6   |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| X       | N/A     | 131     | 1454.4  | 1493.6  |         |         |
| XXII^1^ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| NOTE 1: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Res     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| tricted |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| to UTRA |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| op      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| eration |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| when    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| dual    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| band is |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (e.g.,  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| DB-D    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| C-HSDPA |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| or dual |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| band    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 4C      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| -HSDPA) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

Table 4.1a: UARFCN definition (additional channels)

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Band        | UPLINK (UL) | DOWNLINK    |             |             |
|             |             | (DL)        |             |             |
|             | UE          |             |             |             |
|             | transmit,   | UE receive, |             |             |
|             | Node B      | Node B      |             |             |
|             | receive     | transmit    |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | UARFCN      | Carrier     | UARFCN      | Carrier     |
|             | formula     | frequency   | formula     | frequency   |
|             | offset      | \[MHz\]     | offset      | \[MHz\]     |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             | F~          | (F~UL)~)    | F~          | (F~DL)~)    |
|             | UL\_Offset~ |             | DL\_Offset~ |             |
|             | \[MHz\]     |             | \[MHz\]     |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| I           | \-          | \-          | \-          | \-          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| II          | 1850.1      | 1852.5,     | 1850.1      | 1932.5,     |
|             |             | 1857.5,     |             | 1937.5,     |
|             |             | 1862.5,     |             | 1942.5,     |
|             |             | 1867.5,     |             | 1947.5,     |
|             |             | 1872.5,     |             | 1952.5,     |
|             |             | 1877.5,     |             | 1957.5,     |
|             |             | 1882.5,     |             | 1962.5,     |
|             |             | 1887.5,     |             | 1967.5,     |
|             |             | 1892.5,     |             | 1972.5,     |
|             |             | 1897.5,     |             | 1977.5,     |
|             |             | 1902.5,     |             | 1982.5,     |
|             |             | 1907.5      |             | 1987.5      |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| III         | \-          | \-          | \-          | \-          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| IV          | 1380.1      | 1712.5,     | 1735.1      | 2112.5,     |
|             |             | 1717.5,     |             | 2117.5,     |
|             |             | 1722.5,     |             | 2122.5,     |
|             |             | 1727.5,     |             | 2127.5,     |
|             |             | 1732.5,     |             | 2132.5,     |
|             |             | 1737.5      |             | 2137.5,     |
|             |             | 1742.5,     |             | 2142.5,     |
|             |             | 1747.5,     |             | 2147.5,     |
|             |             | 1752.5      |             | 2152.5      |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| V           | 670.1       | 826.5,      | 670.1       | 871.5,      |
|             |             | 827.5,      |             | 872.5,      |
|             |             | 831.5,      |             | 876.5,      |
|             |             | 832.5,      |             |             |
|             |             | 837.5,      |             | 877.5,      |
|             |             | 842.5       |             | 882.5,      |
|             |             |             |             | 887.5       |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| VI          | 670.1       | 832.5,      | 670.1       | 877.5,      |
|             |             | 837.5       |             | 882.5       |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| VII         | 2030.1      | 2502.5,     | 2105.1      | 2622.5,     |
|             |             | 2507.5,     |             | 2627.5,     |
|             |             | 2512.5,     |             | 2632.5,     |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | 2517.5,     |             | 2637.5,     |
|             |             | 2522.5,     |             | 2642.5,     |
|             |             | 2527.5,     |             | 2647.5,     |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | 2532.5,     |             | 2652.5,     |
|             |             | 2537.5,     |             | 2657.5,     |
|             |             | 2542.5,     |             | 2662.5,     |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | 2547.5,     |             | 2667.5,     |
|             |             | 2552.5,     |             | 2672.5,     |
|             |             | 2557.5,     |             | 2677.5,     |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | 2562.5,     |             | 2682.5,     |
|             |             | 2567.5      |             | 2687.5      |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| VIII        | \-          | \-          | \-          | \-          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| IX          | \-          | \-          | \-          | \-          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| X           | 1075.1      | 1712.5,     | 1430.1      | 2112.5,     |
|             |             | 1717.5,     |             | 2117.5,     |
|             |             | 1722.5,     |             | 2122.5,     |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | 1727.5,     |             | 2127.5,     |
|             |             | 1732.5,     |             | 2132.5,     |
|             |             | 1737.5,     |             | 2137.5,     |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | 1742.5,     |             | 2142.5,     |
|             |             | 1747.5,     |             | 2147.5,     |
|             |             | 1752.5,     |             | 2152.5,     |
|             |             |             |             | 2157.5,     |
|             |             | 1757.5,     |             | 2162.5,     |
|             |             | 1762.5,     |             | 2167.5      |
|             |             | 1767.5      |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| XI          | \-          | \-          | \-          | \-          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| XII         | -39.9       | 701.5,      | -54.9       | 731.5,      |
|             |             | 706.5,      |             | 736.5,      |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | 707.5,      |             | 737.5,      |
|             |             | 712.5,      |             | 742.5,      |
|             |             | 713.5       |             | 743.5       |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| XIII        | 11.1        | 779.5,      | -64.9       | 748.5,      |
|             |             | 784.5       |             | 753.5       |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| XIV         | 2.1         | 790.5,      | -72.9       | 760.5,      |
|             |             | 795.5       |             | 765.5       |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| XIX         | 755.1       | 832.5,      | 720.1       | 877.5,      |
|             |             | 837.5,      |             | 882.5,      |
|             |             | 842.5       |             | 887.5       |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| XX          | \-          | \-          | \-          | \-          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| XXI         | \-          | \-          | \-          | \-          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| XXII        | \-          | \-          | \-          | \-          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| XXV         | 639.1       | 1852.5,     | 674.1       | 1932.5,     |
|             |             | 1857.5,     |             | 1937.5,     |
|             |             | 186         |             | 1942.5,     |
|             |             | 2.5,1867.5, |             | 1947.5,     |
|             |             | 1872.5,     |             | 1952.5,     |
|             |             | 1877.5,     |             | 1957.5,     |
|             |             | 1882.5,     |             | 1962.5,     |
|             |             | 1887.5,     |             | 1967.5,     |
|             |             | 1892.5,     |             | 1972.5,     |
|             |             | 1897.5,     |             | 1977.5,     |
|             |             | 1902.5,     |             | 1982.5,     |
|             |             | 1907.5,     |             | 1987.5,     |
|             |             | 1912.5      |             | 1992.5      |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| XXVI        | -325.9      | 816.5,      | -325.9      | 861.5,      |
|             |             | 821.5,      |             | 866.5,      |
|             |             | 826.5,      |             | 871.5,      |
|             |             | 827.5,      |             | 872.5,      |
|             |             | 831.5,      |             | 876.5,      |
|             |             | 832.5,      |             | 877.5,      |
|             |             | 836.5,      |             | 881.5,      |
|             |             | 837.5,      |             | 882.5,      |
|             |             | 841.5,      |             | 886,5,      |
|             |             | 842.5,      |             | 887.5,      |
|             |             | 846.5       |             | 891.5       |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| XXXII^1^    | N/A         | 87.1        | 1454.5,     |             |
|             |             |             | 1459.5,     |             |
|             |             |             | 1464.5,     |             |
|             |             |             | 1469.5,     |             |
|             |             |             | 1474.5,     |             |
|             |             |             | 1479.5,     |             |
|             |             |             | 1484.5,     |             |
|             |             |             | 1489.5      |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| NOTE 1:     |             |             |             |             |
| Restricted  |             |             |             |             |
| to UTRA     |             |             |             |             |
| operation   |             |             |             |             |
| when dual   |             |             |             |             |
| band is     |             |             |             |             |
| configured  |             |             |             |             |
| (e.g.,      |             |             |             |             |
| DB-DC-HSDPA |             |             |             |             |
| or dual     |             |             |             |             |
| band        |             |             |             |             |
| 4C-HSDPA)   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

### 4.4.4 UARFCN

The following UARFCN range shall be supported for each paired band.

Table 4.2: UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Band        | Uplink (UL) | Downlink    |             |             |
|             |             | (DL)        |             |             |
|             | UE          |             |             |             |
|             | transmit,   | UE receive, |             |             |
|             | Node B      | Node B      |             |             |
|             | receive     | transmit    |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | General     | Additional  | General     | Additional  |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| I           | 9612 to     | \-          | 10562 to    |             |
|             | 9888        |             | 10838       |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| II          | 9262 to     | 12, 37, 62, | 9662 to     | 412, 437,   |
|             | 9538        |             | 9938        | 462,        |
|             |             | 87, 112,    |             |             |
|             |             | 137,        |             | 487, 512,   |
|             |             |             |             | 537,        |
|             |             | 162, 187,   |             |             |
|             |             | 212,        |             | 562, 587,   |
|             |             |             |             | 612,        |
|             |             | 237, 262,   |             |             |
|             |             | 287         |             | 637, 662,   |
|             |             |             |             | 687         |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| III         | 937 to 1288 | \-          | 1162 to     | \-          |
|             |             |             | 1513        |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| IV          | 1312 to     | 1662, 1687, | 1537 to     | 1887, 1912, |
|             | 1513        | 1712, 1737, | 1738        | 1937, 1962, |
|             |             | 1762, 1787, |             | 1987, 2012, |
|             |             | 1812, 1837, |             | 2037, 2062, |
|             |             | 1862        |             | 2087        |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| V           | 4132 to     | 782, 787,   | 4357 to     | 1007, 1012, |
|             | 4233        | 807,        | 4458        | 1032,       |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | 812, 837,   |             | 1037, 1062, |
|             |             | 862         |             | 1087        |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| VI          | 4162 to     | 812, 837    | 4387 to     | 1037, 1062  |
|             | 4188        |             | 4413        |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| VII         | 2012 to     | 2362, 2387, | 2237 to     | 2587, 2612, |
|             | 2338        | 2412, 2437, | 2563        | 2637, 2662, |
|             |             | 2462, 2487, |             | 2687, 2712, |
|             |             | 2512, 2537, |             | 2737, 2762, |
|             |             | 2562, 2587, |             | 2787, 2812, |
|             |             | 2612, 2637, |             | 2837, 2862, |
|             |             | 2662, 2687  |             | 2887, 2912  |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| VIII        | 2712 to     | \-          | 2937 to     | \-          |
|             | 2863        |             | 3088        |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| IX          | 8762 to     | \-          | 9237 to     | \-          |
|             | 8912        |             | 9387        |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| X           | 2887 to     | 3187, 3212, | 3112 to     | 3412, 3437, |
|             | 3163        | 3237, 3262, | 3388        | 3462, 3487, |
|             |             | 3287, 3312, |             | 3512, 3537, |
|             |             | 3337, 3362, |             | 3562, 3587, |
|             |             | 3387, 3412, |             | 3612, 3637, |
|             |             | 3437, 3462  |             | 3662, 3687  |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| XI          | 3487 to     | \-          | 3712 to     | \-          |
|             | 3562        |             | 3787        |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| XII         | 3617 to     | 3707, 3732, | 3842 to     | 3932, 3957, |
|             | 3678        | 3737, 3762, | 3903        | 3962, 3987, |
|             |             | 3767        |             | 3992        |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| XIII        | 3792 to     | 3842, 3867  | 4017 to     | 4067, 4092  |
|             | 3818        |             | 4043        |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| XIV         | 3892 to     | 3942, 3967  | 4117 to     | 4167, 4192  |
|             | 3918        |             | 4143        |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| XIX         | 312 to 363  | 387, 412,   | 712 to 763  | 787, 812,   |
|             |             | 437         |             | 837         |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| XX          | 4287 to     | \-          | 4512 to     | \-          |
|             | 4413        |             | 4638        |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| XXI         | 462 to 512  | \-          | 862 to 912  | \-          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| XXII        | 4437 to     | \-          | 4662 to     | \-          |
|             | 4813        |             | 5038        |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| XXV         | 4887 to     | 6067, 6092, | 5112 to     | 6292, 6317, |
|             | 5188        | 6117, 6142, | 5413        | 6342, 6367, |
|             |             | 6167, 6192, |             | 6392, 6417, |
|             |             | 6217, 6242, |             | 6442, 6467, |
|             |             | 6267, 6292, |             | 6492, 6517, |
|             |             | 6317, 6342, |             | 6542, 6567, |
|             |             | 6367        |             | 6592        |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| XXVI        | 5537 to     | 5712, 5737, | 5762 to     | 5937, 5962, |
|             | 5688        | 5762, 5767, | 5913        | 5987, 5992, |
|             |             | 5787, 5792, |             | 6012, 6017, |
|             |             | 5812, 5817, |             | 6037, 6042, |
|             |             | 5837, 5842, |             | 6062, 6067, |
|             |             | 5862        |             | 6087        |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| XXXII^1^    | N/A         | 6617 to     | 6837, 6862, |             |
|             |             | 6813        | 6887, 6912, |             |
|             |             |             | 6937, 6962, |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             | 6987, 7012  |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| NOTE 1:     |             |             |             |             |
| Restricted  |             |             |             |             |
| to UTRA     |             |             |             |             |
| operation   |             |             |             |             |
| when dual   |             |             |             |             |
| band is     |             |             |             |             |
| configured  |             |             |             |             |
| (e.g.,      |             |             |             |             |
| DB-DC-HSDPA |             |             |             |             |
| or dual     |             |             |             |             |
| band        |             |             |             |             |
| 4C-HSDPA)   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

NOTE: If the UE is on a network with Mobile Country Code set to Japan
then it may assume that any DL UARFCN sent by the network from the
overlapping region of Band V and Band VI is from Band VI. If the UE is
on a network with a Mobile Country Code other than Japan then it may
assume that any DL UARFCN sent by the network from the overlapping
region of Band V and Band VI is from Band V.

4A Reference Conditions
=======================

The reference environment used by all test cases in this document is
specified in TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 36.508 \[33\]. Where a test requires
an environment that is different, this will be specified in the test
itself.

4A.1 Generic setup procedures
-----------------------------

Test procedures for RF test are defined in TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.
The initial conditions of this clause also refer to the generic setup
procedures defined in TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.2.

4A.2 System information
-----------------------

The reference system information used for test cases specified in this
document is defined in TS 34.108 \[3\] clauses 6.1.0a (Default Master
Information Block and Scheduling Block messages) and 6.1.0b (Default
System Information Block Messages). For cells other than cell 1 the
difference in information elements is defined in TS 34.108 \[3\] clause
6.1.4. For the generic setup procedures defined in TS 34.108 \[3\]
clause 7.3 some SIB elements override those specific SIB elements from
TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 6.1.0b. Annex I in the present document
overwrites specific elements in the Master Information Block and
Scheduling Block messages compared to TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 6.1.0a and
specific SIB elements compared to TS 34.108 \[3\] clauses 6.1.0b and
7.3. In the test description itself specific SIB elements can be
overwritten again. This leads to the following places defining Master
Information Block, Scheduling Block messages and System Information
Block Messages:

1\. TS 34.108 \[3\] clauses 6.1.0a, 6.1.0b and 6.1.4

2\. TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3

3\. TS 34.121 Annex I

4\. TS 34.121 test case description

When the same Information Element is defined in several places then the
place with the higher number according to the above list will override
the other definition(s).

The reference system information for E-UTRAN is specified in TS 36.508
\[33\]

4A.3 Message contents
---------------------

Default message contents for test cases specified in this document are
defined in TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 9. Most default message contents are
specified in TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 9.2.1, but some default message
contents originally defined for signalling test cases are re-used for RF
testing and specified in TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 9.1.1. TS 34.108 \[3\]
clause 7.3 contains additional information regarding the default
messages. Annex I in the present document overwrites specific message
contents for some test cases. In the test description itself specific
information elements can be overwritten again. This leads to the
following places defining message contents:

1a. TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 9.1.1 (only if indicated by TS 34.108 \[3\]
clause 7.3 or the test description in TS 34.121)

1b. TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 9.2.1 (as indicated by TS 34.108 \[3\] clause
7.3 or the test description in TS 34.121)

2\. TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3

3\. TS 34.121 Annex I

4\. TS 34.121 test case description

When the same Information Element is defined in several places then the
place with the higher number according to the above list will override
the other definition(s). Default message contents from TS 34.108 \[3\]
clause 9 will be used either from clause 9.1.1 (1a in the list above) or
from clause 9.2.1 (1b in the list above). Some messages are not defined
in all places, but all messages have to be defined at least in the test
description.

Default message contents for E-UTRAN is specified in TS 36.508 \[33\].

4A.4 Measurement configurations
-------------------------------

Measurement configurations defined by system information are specified
in TS 34.108 \[3\]. System Information Block type 11 (SIB 11) configures
measurements for cell 1 according to TS 34.108 \[3\], clause 6.1.0b. See
TS 34.108 \[3\], clause 6.1.4 for the difference in message contents of
SIB 11 (FDD) for other cells used in the test. SIB 12 is specified in TS
34.108 \[3\] clause 6.1.0b, but is currently not used to configure
measurements.

Some modifications to specific information elements in SIB 11 are
defined in TS 34.121 Annex I or in the test description itself. In this
case the priority defined in clause 4A.2 shall be applied.

Note: Currently SIB 11 in TS 34.108 \[3\] configures **Intra-frequency
measurement system information** to use \"Intra-frequency measurement
identity=1\" (default value), \"Intra-frequency measurement identity
=CPICH RSCP\" with events 1a, 1b and 1c. The Inter**-frequency
measurement system information and the Inter-RAT measurement system
information** do not configure measurement identities. Traffic volume
measurement system information is not present.

In many test cases the measurement identity as configured by SIB 11 is
reused and the Measurement Control message will \"Modify\" the
Measurement Identity configured in SIB 11.

In some test cases additional measurements are used. Then the
Measurement Control message will \"Setup\" a new Measurement Identity
with the default value for that measurement quantity as specified in TS
25.331 \[8\]. If the Measurement Control message uses \"Setup\" then the
new Measurement Identity shall be different to already configured ones.
All Inter**-frequency measurements and Inter-RAT measurements are first
configured by** Measurement Control message using \"Setup\".

All UE measurements are referenced to the UE antenna connector.

Measurement configurations defined by system information for E-UTRAN is
specified in TS 36.508 \[33\].

5 Transmitter Characteristics
=============================

5.1 General
-----------

Transmitting performance test of the UE is implemented during
communicating with the SS via air interface. The procedure is using
normal call protocol until the UE is communicating on traffic channel
basically. On the traffic channel, the UE provides special function for
testing that is called Logical Test Interface and the UE is tested using
this function. (Refer to TS 34.109 \[4\]).

Transmitting or receiving bit/symbol rate for test channel is shown in
table 5.1.

Table 5.1: Bit / Symbol rate for Test Channel

+-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+
| Type of     | User bit    | DL DPCH     | UL DPCH  | Remarks     |
| User        | rate        |             |          |             |
| Information |             | symbol rate | bit rate |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+
| 12,2 kbps   | 12,2 kbps   | 30 ksps     | 60 kbps  | Standard    |
| reference   |             |             |          | Test        |
| measurement |             |             |          |             |
| channel     |             |             |          |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+

Unless detailed the transmitter characteristic are specified at the
antenna connector of the UE. For UE with integral antenna only, a
reference antenna with a gain of 0 dBi is assumed. Transmitter
characteristics for UE(s) with multiple antennas/antenna connectors are
FFS.

The UE antenna performance has a significant impact on system
performance, and minimum requirements on the antenna efficiency are
therefore intended to be included in future versions of the present
document. It is recognised that different requirements and test methods
are likely to be required for the different types of UE.

All the parameters in clause 5 are defined using the UL reference
measurement channel (12,2 kbps) specified in clause C.2.1 and unless
stated otherwise, with the UL power control ON.

The common RF test conditions of Tx Characteristics are defined in
clause E.3.1, and each test conditions in this clause (clause 5) should
refer clause E.3.1. Individual test conditions are defined in the
paragraph of each test.

When DCCH has been configured on downlink DCH then DCCH Data shall be
continuously transmitted on downlink DCH during the measurement period.
When there is no signalling to transmit on downlink DCCH then dummy DCCH
transmission as described in Annex C.9 shall be used.

For HSDPA test cases and E-DCH test cases, when DTCH has been configured
on downlink DCH then DTCH Data shall be continuously transmitted on
downlink DCH during the measurement period.

The MAC header transmission on HS-DSCH for all E-DCH test cases shall
use a correct MAC-hs header consistent with the actual HSDPA
transmission.

The DL and UL RLC SDU size for all E-DCH tests in clause 5 shall be set
according to Annex C.11.3.

For HSDPA test cases without E-DCH, the MAC headers on HS-DSCH shall be
according to Annex C.9A.

UEs supporting DC-HSUPA shall support both minimum requirements, as well
as additional requirements for DC-HSUPA.

For the additional requirements for DC-HSUPA, all the parameters in
clause 6 are defined using the UL E-DCH reference measurement channel,
specified in subclause C.2.6. For the additional requirements for
DC-HSUPA, the spacing of the carrier frequencies of the two cells shall
be 5 MHz.

5.2 Maximum Output Power
------------------------

### 5.2.1 Definition and applicability

The nominal maximum output power and its tolerance are defined according
to the Power Class of the UE.

The maximum output power is a measure of the maximum power the UE can
transmit (i.e. the actual power as would be measured assuming no
measurement error) in a bandwidth of at least (1+ α) times the chip rate
of the radio access mode. The period of measurement shall be at least
one timeslot.

The requirements and this test apply to all types of UTRA for the FDD
UE.

### 5.2.2 Minimum Requirements

The UE maximum output power shall be within the nominal value and
tolerance specified in table 5.2.1 even for the multi-code transmission
mode.

Table 5.2.1: Nominal Maximum Output Power

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Operating Band</td>
<td>Power Class 1</td>
<td>Power Class 2</td>
<td>Power Class 3</td>
<td>Power Class 3bis</td>
<td>Power Class 4</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td><p>Power</p>
<p>(dBm)</p></td>
<td><p>Tol</p>
<p>(dB)</p></td>
<td><p>Power</p>
<p>(dBm)</p></td>
<td><p>Tol</p>
<p>(dB)</p></td>
<td><p>Power</p>
<p>(dBm)</p></td>
<td><p>Tol</p>
<p>(dB)</p></td>
<td><p>Power</p>
<p>(dBm)</p></td>
<td><p>Tol</p>
<p>(dB)</p></td>
<td><p>Power</p>
<p>(dBm)</p></td>
<td><p>Tol</p>
<p>(dB)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band I</td>
<td>+33</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+27</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band II</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band III</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band IV</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band V</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band VI</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band VII</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band VIII</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band IX</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band X</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band XI</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band XII</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band XIII</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band XIV</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band XIX</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band XX</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band XXI</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band XXII</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-4.5</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-3.5</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-3.5</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band XXV</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-4</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-3</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-3</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Band XXVI</p>
<p>(Note 1)</p></td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-4</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-3</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-3</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>NOTE 1: For the UE which supports both Band V and Band XXVI operating frequencies, the UE maximum output power of Band V shall apply for Band XXVI when the carrier frequency of the assigned UTRA channel is within 824-845 MHz.</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

NOTE: The tolerance allowed for the nominal maximum output power applies
even for the multi-code DPDCH transmission mode.

For the UE which supports DB-DC-HSDPA configuration in Table 6.1aB, the
lower side of the tolerance in Table 5.2.1 is allowed to be adjusted by
the amount given in Table 5.2.1a for the applicable bands.

Table 5.2.1a Allowed adjustment in lower side of tolerance for UE which
supports DB-DC-HSDPA

+--------------------+--------------------+------------------+---+
| DB-DC-HSDPA        | Maximum allowed    | Applicable bands |   |
| Configuration      | adjustment         |                  |   |
|                    |                    |                  |   |
|                    | in lower side of   |                  |   |
|                    | tolerance (dB)     |                  |   |
+--------------------+--------------------+------------------+---+
| 1                  | -0.3               | I, VIII          |   |
+--------------------+--------------------+------------------+---+
| 2                  | -1                 | II, IV           |   |
+--------------------+--------------------+------------------+---+
| 3                  | -0.3               | I, V             |   |
+--------------------+--------------------+------------------+---+
| 4                  | -1                 | I, XI            |   |
+--------------------+--------------------+------------------+---+
| 5                  | -0.3               | II, V            |   |
+--------------------+--------------------+------------------+---+
| 6                  | -0.3               | I                |   |
+--------------------+--------------------+------------------+---+
| NOTE: The          |                    |                  |   |
| requirements       |                    |                  |   |
| reflect what can   |                    |                  |   |
| be achieved with   |                    |                  |   |
| the present state  |                    |                  |   |
| of the art         |                    |                  |   |
| technology. They   |                    |                  |   |
| shall be           |                    |                  |   |
| reconsidered when  |                    |                  |   |
| the state of the   |                    |                  |   |
| art technology     |                    |                  |   |
| progresses.        |                    |                  |   |
+--------------------+--------------------+------------------+---+

For the UE which supports dual band 4C-HSDPA configuration in Table
5.2.1b, the lower side of the tolerance in Table 5.2.1 is allowed to be
adjusted by the amount given in Table 5.2.1b for the applicable bands.

Table 5.2.1b: Allowed adjustment in lower side of tolerance for UE which
supports dual band 4C-HSDPA

+------------------------+------------------------+------------------+
| Dual Band              | Maximum allowed        | Applicable bands |
|                        | adjustment in lower    |                  |
| 4C-HSDPA Configuration | side of tolerance (dB) |                  |
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------+
| I-2-VIII-1,            | -0.3                   | I, VIII          |
| I-3-VIII-1,            |                        |                  |
| I-2-VIII-2, I-1-VIII-2 |                        |                  |
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------+
| II-1-IV-2, II-2-IV-1,  | -1                     | II, IV           |
| II-2-IV-2              |                        |                  |
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------+
| I-1-V-2, I-2-V-1,      | -0.3                   | I, V             |
| I-2-V-2                |                        |                  |
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------+
| II-1-V-2               | -0.3                   | II, V            |
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------+
| I-1-XXXII-2,           | -0.3                   | I                |
| I-2-XXXII-1            |                        |                  |
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------+
| NOTE: The requirements |                        |                  |
| reflect what can be    |                        |                  |
| achieved with the      |                        |                  |
| present state of the   |                        |                  |
| art technology. They   |                        |                  |
| shall be reconsidered  |                        |                  |
| when the state of the  |                        |                  |
| art technology         |                        |                  |
| progresses.            |                        |                  |
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------+

For the UE which supports E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation, the
lower side of the tolerance in Table 5.2.1 is allowed to be decreased by
the amount given in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS 36.101\[11\] for those UTRA
operating bands corresponding to the E-UTRA operating bands that belong
to the supported inter-band carrier aggregation configurations. The
tolerance in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS 36.101\[11\] does not apply to
supported UTRA operating bands with frequency range below 1 GHz that
correspond to the E-UTRA operating bands that belong to the supported
inter-band carrier aggregation configurations when such bands are
belonging only to band combination(s) where one band is \<1GHz and
another band is \>1.7GHz and there is no harmonic relationship between
the low band UL and high band DL.

In case the UE supports DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA configurations
and one or more of the E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation
configurations listed in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS36.101\[11\] with a UTRA
operating band that belongs to UTRA and E-UTRA carrier aggregation
configurations, then

\- When the UTRA operating band frequency range is ≤ 1GHz, the
applicable additional tolerance shall be the average of the applicable
tolerances, truncated to one decimal place for that operating band among
the supported DB-DC-HSDPA, dual band 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA CA
configurations, with the DB-DC-HSDPA, dual carrier 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA
CA configurations counted separately. In case there is a harmonic
relation between low band UL and high band DL, then the maximum
tolerance among the different supported carrier aggregation
configurations involving such band shall be applied

\- When the UTRA operating band frequency range is \>1GHz, the
applicable additional tolerance shall be the maximum tolerance that
applies for that operating band among the supported DB-DC-HSDPA, dual
band 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA CA configurations.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\], clause
6.2.1.

### 5.2.3 Test purpose

To verify that the error of the UE maximum output power does not exceed
the range prescribed by the nominal maximum output power and tolerance
in table 5.2.1.

An excess maximum output power has the possibility to interfere to other
channels or other systems. A small maximum output power decreases the
coverage area.

### 5.2.4 Method of test

#### 5.2.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.1.

2\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure in
TS34.108 \[3\], clause 7.3.2.

3\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

#### 5.2.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE.

2\) Measure the mean power of the UE in a bandwidth of at least (1+ α)
times the chip rate of the radio access mode. The mean power shall be
averaged over at least one timeslot.

### 5.2.5 Test requirements

The maximum output power, derived in step 2), shall not exceed the range
prescribed by the nominal maximum output power and tolerance in table
5.2.2.

Table 5.2.2: Nominal Maximum Output Power

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Operating Band</td>
<td>Power Class 1</td>
<td>Power Class 2</td>
<td>Power Class 3</td>
<td>Power Class 3bis</td>
<td>Power Class 4</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td><p>Power</p>
<p>(dBm)</p></td>
<td><p>Tol</p>
<p>(dB)</p></td>
<td><p>Power</p>
<p>(dBm)</p></td>
<td><p>Tol</p>
<p>(dB)</p></td>
<td><p>Power</p>
<p>(dBm)</p></td>
<td><p>Tol</p>
<p>(dB)</p></td>
<td><p>Power</p>
<p>(dBm)</p></td>
<td><p>Tol</p>
<p>(dB)</p></td>
<td><p>Power</p>
<p>(dBm)</p></td>
<td><p>Tol</p>
<p>(dB)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band I</td>
<td>+33</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+27</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band II</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band III</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band IV</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band V</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band VI</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band VII</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band VIII</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band IX</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band X</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band XI</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band XII</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band XIII</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band XIV</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band XIX</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band XX</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band XXI</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band XXII</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-5.2</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-4.2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2.7/-4.2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band XXV</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-4,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-3,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Band XXVI</p>
<p>(Note 1)</p></td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1.7/-4.7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2.7/-3.7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2.7/-3.7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>NOTE 1: For the UE which supports both Band V and Band XXVI operating frequencies, the UE maximum output power of Band V shall apply for Band XXVI when the carrier frequency of the assigned UTRA channel is within 824‑845 MHz.</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

For the UE which supports E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation, the
lower side of the tolerance in Table 5.2.2 is allowed to be decreased by
the amount given in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS 36.101\[11\] for those UTRA
operating bands corresponding to the E-UTRA operating bands that belong
to the supported inter-band carrier aggregation configurations. The
tolerance in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS 36.101\[11\] does not apply to
supported UTRA operating bands with frequency range below 1 GHz that
correspond to the E-UTRA operating bands that belong to the supported
inter-band carrier aggregation configurations when such bands are
belonging only to band combination(s) where one band is \<1GHz and
another band is \>1.7GHz and there is no harmonic relationship between
the low band UL and high band DL.

For the UE which supports DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA
configurations with uplink assigned to one UTRA band the relaxation in
Table 5.2.1a and Table 5.2.1b respectively shall be applied for
applicable bands.

In case the UE supports DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA configurations
and one or more of the E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation
configurations listed in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS36.101\[11\] with a UTRA
operating band that belongs to UTRA and E-UTRA carrier aggregation
configurations, then

\- When the UTRA operating band frequency range is ≤ 1GHz, the
applicable additional tolerance shall be the average of the applicable
tolerances, truncated to one decimal place for that operating band among
the supported DB-DC-HSDPA, dual band 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA CA
configurations, with the DB-DC-HSDPA, dual carrier 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA
CA configurations counted separately. In case there is a harmonic
relation between low band UL and high band DL, then the maximum
tolerance among the different supported carrier aggregation
configurations involving such band shall be applied

\- When the UTRA operating band frequency range is \>1GHz, the
applicable additional tolerance shall be the maximum tolerance that
applies for that operating band among the supported DB-DC-HSDPA, dual
band 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA CA configurations.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.2A Maximum Output Power with HS-DPCCH (Release 5 only)
--------------------------------------------------------

### 5.2A.1 Definition and applicability

The maximum output power with HS-DPCCH and its tolerance are defined
according to the Power Class of the UE.

The maximum output power with HS-DPCCH is a measure of the maximum power
the UE can transmit when HS‑DPCCH is fully or partially transmitted
during a DPCCH timeslot. The measurement period shall be at least one
timeslot.

The requirements and this test apply to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE
that supports HSDPA for Release 5.

### 5.2A.2 Minimum Requirements

The UE maximum output power with HS-DPCCH shall be within the value and
tolerance specified in table 5.2A.1 when HS-DPCCH is fully or partially
transmitted during a DPCCH timeslot. The maximum output power where
HS‑DPCCH is not transmitted shall be within the values and tolerance
specified in table 5.2.1.

Table 5.2A.1: Maximum Output Powers with HS-DPCCH

+-----------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-------+
| Ratio of        | Power Class 3 | Power Class 4 |       |       |
| ![](med         |               |               |       |       |
| ia/image12.wmf) |               |               |       |       |
| {width="0.20833 |               |               |       |       |
| 333333333334in" |               |               |       |       |
| h               |               |               |       |       |
| eight="0.25in"} |               |               |       |       |
| to              |               |               |       |       |
| ![](me          |               |               |       |       |
| dia/image13.wmf |               |               |       |       |
| ){width="0.2222 |               |               |       |       |
| 222222222222in" |               |               |       |       |
| heig            |               |               |       |       |
| ht="0.25in"}for |               |               |       |       |
| all values of   |               |               |       |       |
| ![](med         |               |               |       |       |
| ia/image14.wmf) |               |               |       |       |
| {width="0.25in" |               |               |       |       |
| h               |               |               |       |       |
| eight="0.25in"} |               |               |       |       |
+-----------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-------+
|                 | Power         | Tol           | Power | Tol   |
|                 |               |               |       |       |
|                 | (dBm)         | (dB)          | (dBm) | (dB)  |
+-----------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-------+
| 1/15 ≤          | +24           | +1/-3         | +21   | +2/-2 |
| β~c~/β~d~ ≤     |               |               |       |       |
| 12/15           |               |               |       |       |
+-----------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-------+
| 13/15 ≤         | +23           | +2/-3         | +20   | +3/-2 |
| β~c~/β~d~ ≤     |               |               |       |       |
| 15/8            |               |               |       |       |
+-----------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-------+
| 15/7 ≤          | +22           | +3/-3         | +19   | +4/-2 |
| β~c~/β~d~ ≤     |               |               |       |       |
| 15/0            |               |               |       |       |
+-----------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-------+

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\], clause
6.2.2.

### 5.2A.3 Test purpose

To verify that the error of the UE maximum output power with HS-DPCCH
does not exceed the range prescribed by the maximum output power and
tolerance in table 5.2A.1.

An excess maximum output power may interfere with other channels or
other systems. A small maximum output power decreases the coverage area.

### 5.2A.4 Method of test

#### 5.2A.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.1.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK version) are specified in Annex C.10.1 and
C.8.1.1 with the beta values set according to table C.10.1.4.

3\) An HSDPA call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.6.
RF parameters are set up according to table E.5.1 and table E.5.10.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.2A.1A.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

Table 5.2A.1A: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement\
of Maximum Output Power with HS-DPCCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.2A.4.1                 |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

#### 5.2A.4.2 Procedure

1\) Send TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to set the beta
values according to table C.10.1.4 and the DPCH frame offset according
the HS-DPCCH slot offset required for measurements.

2\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE.

3\) Start transmitting HSDPA Data.

> 4\) Measure the mean power of the UE. The mean power shall be averaged
> over at least one timeslot.

5\) Repeat the measurement for the different combinations of beta values
as given in table C.10.1.4.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9 of TS 34.108 \[3\], except the
TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message which is defined in Annex I.

### 5.2A.5 Test requirements

The maximum output power with HS-DPCCH, derived in step 4), shall not
exceed the range prescribed by the maximum output power and tolerance in
table 5.2A.2. The maximum output power where HS-DPCCH is not transmitted
shall not exceed the range prescribed in table 5.2.2.

The UL reference measurement channel for TX test will be set as defined
in C.10.1 with the power ratio between HS-DPCH, DPCCH and DPDCH being
set to the values defined in table C.10.1.4.

Table 5.2A.2: Maximum Output Powers with HS-DPCCH for test

+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Ratio of      | Power Class 3 | Power Class 4 |       |           |
| ![](media/ima |               |               |       |           |
| ge12.wmf){wid |               |               |       |           |
| th="0.2083333 |               |               |       |           |
| 3333333334in" |               |               |       |           |
| hei           |               |               |       |           |
| ght="0.25in"} |               |               |       |           |
| to            |               |               |       |           |
| ![](media/im  |               |               |       |           |
| age13.wmf){wi |               |               |       |           |
| dth="0.222222 |               |               |       |           |
| 2222222222in" |               |               |       |           |
| height        |               |               |       |           |
| ="0.25in"}for |               |               |       |           |
| all values of |               |               |       |           |
| ![](media/i   |               |               |       |           |
| mage14.wmf){w |               |               |       |           |
| idth="0.25in" |               |               |       |           |
| hei           |               |               |       |           |
| ght="0.25in"} |               |               |       |           |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
|               | Power         | Tol           | Power | Tol       |
|               |               |               |       |           |
|               | (dBm)         | (dB)          | (dBm) | (dB)      |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| β~c~ /β~d~ =  | +24           | +1.7/-3.7     | +21   | +2.7/-2.7 |
| 2/15, 12/15   |               |               |       |           |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| β~c~ /β~d~ =  | +23           | +2.7/-3.7     | +20   | +3.7/-2.7 |
| 15/8          |               |               |       |           |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| β~c~ /β~d~ =  | +22           | +3.7/-3.7     | +19   | +4.7/-2.7 |
| 15/4          |               |               |       |           |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| NOTE: For the |               |               |       |           |
| purpose of    |               |               |       |           |
| the test      |               |               |       |           |
| ∆~ACK~,       |               |               |       |           |
| ∆~NACK~ and   |               |               |       |           |
| ∆~CQI~ =      |               |               |       |           |
| 30/15 with    |               |               |       |           |
| ![](media/i   |               |               |       |           |
| mage14.wmf){w |               |               |       |           |
| idth="0.25in" |               |               |       |           |
| heig          |               |               |       |           |
| ht="0.25in"}= |               |               |       |           |
| 30/15 \*      |               |               |       |           |
| ![](media/ima |               |               |       |           |
| ge12.wmf){wid |               |               |       |           |
| th="0.2083333 |               |               |       |           |
| 3333333334in" |               |               |       |           |
| heig          |               |               |       |           |
| ht="0.25in"}. |               |               |       |           |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.2AA Maximum Output Power with HS-DPCCH (Release 6 and later)
--------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.2AA.1 Definition and applicability

The maximum output power with HS-DPCCH and its tolerance are defined
according to the UE Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for the nominal
maximum output power.

The maximum output power with HS-DPCCH is a measure of the maximum power
the UE can transmit when HS-DPCCH is fully or partially transmitted
during a DPCCH timeslot. The measurement period shall be at least one
timeslot.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 6 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA without E-DCH.

### 5.2AA.2 Minimum Requirements

The UE Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for the nominal maximum output
power shall be within the value and tolerance specified in table 5.2AA.1
for when the values of β~c~^,^ β~d~^,^ β~hs,~ β~ec~ and β~ed~ is fully
or partially transmitted during a DPCCH timeslot.

Table 5.2AA.1: Maximum Output Power with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------------
  UE transmit channel configuration                                                                                                                                                  CM (dB)        MPR (dB)
  For all combinations of; DPDCH, DPCCH, HS‑DPCCH, E-DPDCH and E-DPCCH                                                                                                               0 ≤ CM ≤ 3.5   MAX (CM-1, 0)
  NOTE 1: CM = 1 for β~c~/β~d~ =12/15, β~hs~/β~c~=24/15. For all other combinations of DPDCH, DPCCH, HS-DPCCH, E-DPDCH and E-DPCCH the MPR is based on the relative CM difference.                  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------------

Where Cubic Metric (CM) is based on the UE transmit channel
configuration and is given by:

CM = CEIL { \[20 \* log10 ((v\_norm ^3^) ~rms~) - 20 \* log10
((v\_norm\_ref ^3^) ~rms~)\] / k, 0.5 }

Where:

\- CEIL{ x, 0.5 } means rounding upwards to closest 0.5dB, i.e. CM ∈
\[0, 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.5\]

\- k is 1.85 for signals where all channelisations codes meet the
following criteria C~SF,\ N~ where N\< SF/2

\- k is 1.56 for signals were any channelisations codes meet the
following criteria C~SF,\ N~ where N ≥ SF/2

\- v\_norm is the normalized voltage waveform of the input signal

\- v\_norm\_ref is the normalized voltage waveform of the reference
signal (12.2 kbps AMR Speech) and 20 \* log10 ((v\_norm\_ref^3^)~rms~) =
1.52 dB

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\], clause
6.2.2.

### 5.2AA.3 Test purpose

To verify that the error of the UE maximum output power with HS-DPCCH
does not exceed the range prescribed by the maximum output power and
tolerance in table 5.2AA.2.

An excess maximum output power may interfere with other channels or
other systems. A small maximum output power decreases the coverage area.

### 5.2AA.4 Method of test

#### 5.2AA.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.1.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1) are specified in clauses C.10.1 and C.8.1.1.

3\) An HSDPA call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.6.
RF parameters are set up according to table E.5.1 and table E.5.10.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.2AA.1A.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

Table 5.2AA.1A: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement\
of Maximum Output Power with HS-DPCCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.2AA.4.1                |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

#### 5.2AA.4.2 Procedure

1\) Send TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to set the beta
values according to table C.10.1.4 and the DPCH frame offset according
to the HS-DPCCH slot offset required for measurements.

2\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE.

3\) Start transmitting HSDPA Data.

> 4\) Measure the mean power of the UE. The mean power shall be averaged
> over at least one timeslot.

5\) Repeat the measurement for the different combinations of beta values
as given in table C.10.1.4.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-1 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9 of TS 34.108 \[3\], except the
TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message which is defined in Annex I.

### 5.2AA.5 Test requirements

The maximum output power with HS-DPCCH, derived in step 4), shall not
exceed the range prescribed by the maximum output power and tolerance in
table 5.2AA.2 or 5.2AA.3 depending on tested band. The maximum output
power where HS-DPCCH is not transmitted shall not exceed the range
prescribed in table 5.2.2.

The UL reference measurement channel for TX test will be set as defined
in C.10.1 with the power ratio between HS-DPCH, DPCCH and DPDCH being
set to the values defined in table C.10.1.4.

Table 5.2AA.2: Maximum Output Powers with HS-DPCCH for test

+----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Sub-test in table C.10.1.4 | Power Class 3 | Power Class 4 |       |           |
+----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
|                            | Power         | Tol           | Power | Tol       |
|                            |               |               |       |           |
|                            | (dBm)         | (dB)          | (dBm) | (dB)      |
+----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 1                          | +24           | +1.7/-3.7     | +21   | +2.7/-2.7 |
+----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 2                          | +24           | +1.7/-3.7     | +21   | +2.7/-2.7 |
+----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 3                          | +23.5         | +2.2/-3.7     | +20.5 | +3.2/-2.7 |
+----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 4                          | +23.5         | +2.2/-3.7     | +20.5 | +3.2/-2.7 |
+----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+

For the UE which supports E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation, the
lower side of the tolerance in Table 5.2AA.2 and 5.2AA.3 is allowed to
be decreased by the amount given in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS 36.101\[11\] for
those UTRA operating bands corresponding to the E-UTRA operating bands
that belong to the supported inter-band carrier aggregation
configurations. The tolerance in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS 36.101\[11\] does
not apply to supported UTRA operating bands with frequency range below 1
GHz that correspond to the E-UTRA operating bands that belong to the
supported inter-band carrier aggregation configurations when such bands
are belonging only to band combination(s) where one band is \<1GHz and
another band is \>1.7GHz and there is no harmonic relationship between
the low band UL and high band DL.

For the UE which supports DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA
configurations with uplink assigned to one UTRA band the relaxation in
Table 5.2.1a and Table 5.2.1b respectively shall be applied for
applicable bands.

In case the UE supports DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA configurations
and one or more of the E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation
configurations listed in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS36.101\[11\] with a UTRA
operating band that belongs to UTRA and E-UTRA carrier aggregation
configurations, then

\- When the UTRA operating band frequency range is ≤ 1GHz, the
applicable additional tolerance shall be the average of the applicable
tolerances, truncated to one decimal place for that operating band among
the supported DB-DC-HSDPA, dual band 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA CA
configurations, with the DB-DC-HSDPA, dual carrier 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA
CA configurations counted separately. In case there is a harmonic
relation between low band UL and high band DL, then the maximum
tolerance among the different supported carrier aggregation
configurations involving such band shall be applied

\- When the UTRA operating band frequency range is \>1GHz, the
applicable additional tolerance shall be the maximum tolerance that
applies for that operating band among the supported DB-DC-HSDPA, dual
band 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA CA configurations.

Table 5.2AA.3: Maximum Output Powers with HS-DPCCH for test in bands XXV
and XXVI

+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Sub-test in   | Power Class 3 | Power Class 4 |       |           |
| table         |               |               |       |           |
| C.10.1.4      |               |               |       |           |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
|               | Power         | Tol           | Power | Tol       |
|               |               |               |       |           |
|               | (dBm)         | (dB)          | (dBm) | (dB)      |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 1             | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | +21   | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 2             | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | +21   | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 3             | +23.5         | +2.2/-4.7     | +20.5 | +3.2/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 4             | +23.5         | +2.2/-4.7     | +20.5 | +3.2/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| NOTE: For the |               |               |       |           |
| UE which      |               |               |       |           |
| supports both |               |               |       |           |
| Band V and    |               |               |       |           |
| Band XXVI     |               |               |       |           |
| operating     |               |               |       |           |
| frequencies,  |               |               |       |           |
| the UE        |               |               |       |           |
| maximum       |               |               |       |           |
| output power  |               |               |       |           |
| of Band V     |               |               |       |           |
| shall apply   |               |               |       |           |
| for Band XXVI |               |               |       |           |
| when the      |               |               |       |           |
| carrier       |               |               |       |           |
| frequency of  |               |               |       |           |
| the assigned  |               |               |       |           |
| UTRA channel  |               |               |       |           |
| is within     |               |               |       |           |
| 824-845 MHz.  |               |               |       |           |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.2AB Maximum Output Power for OLTD
-----------------------------------

### 5.2AB.1 Definition and applicability

The nominal maximum output power with UL OLTD and its tolerance are
defined according to the Power Class of the UE.

The maximum output power is a measure of the maximum power the UE can
transmit (i.e. the actual power as would be measured assuming no
measurement error) in a bandwidth of at least (1+ α) times the chip rate
of the radio access mode. The period of measurement shall be at least
one timeslot.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL OLTD and HSDPA.

### 5.2AB.2 Minimum Requirements

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL OLTD operation,
the maximum output power is specified in Table 5.2.AB.1. The nominal
transmit power is defined by the sum of transmit power at each UE
antenna connector.

Table 5.2.AB.1: UE Power Classes for UL OLTD

+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Operating Band | Power Class 3 | Power Class    |       |         |
|                |               | 3bis           |       |         |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
|                | Power         | Tol            | Power | Tol     |
|                |               |                |       |         |
|                | (dBm)         | (dB)           | (dBm) | (dB)    |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band I         | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band II        | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band III       | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band IV        | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band V         | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band VI        | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band VII       | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band VIII      | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band IX        | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band X         | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band XI        | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band XII       | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band XIII      | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band IV        | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band XIX       | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band XX        | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band XXI       | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band XXII      | +24           | +1/-5.5        | 23    | +2/-4.5 |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band XXV       | +24           | +1/-5          | 23    | +2/-4   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band XXVI      | +24           | +1/-5          | 23    | +2/-4   |
|                |               |                |       |         |
| (Note 1)       |               |                |       |         |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Note 1: For    |               |                |       |         |
| the UE which   |               |                |       |         |
| supports both  |               |                |       |         |
| Band V and     |               |                |       |         |
| Band XXVI      |               |                |       |         |
| operating      |               |                |       |         |
| frequencies,   |               |                |       |         |
| the UE maximum |               |                |       |         |
| output power   |               |                |       |         |
| of Band V      |               |                |       |         |
| shall apply    |               |                |       |         |
| for Band XXVI  |               |                |       |         |
| when the       |               |                |       |         |
| carrier        |               |                |       |         |
| frequency of   |               |                |       |         |
| the assigned   |               |                |       |         |
| UTRA channel   |               |                |       |         |
| is within      |               |                |       |         |
| 824-845 MHz.   |               |                |       |         |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\], clause
6.2.1A.

### 5.2AB.3 Test purpose

To verify that the error of the UE maximum output power for UL OLTD does
not exceed the range prescribed by the nominal maximum output power and
tolerance in table 5.2.AB.1.

An excess maximum output power has the possibility to interfere to other
channels or other systems. A small maximum output power decreases the
coverage area.

### 5.2AB.4 Method of test

#### 5.2AB.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1) are specified in clauses C.10.2 and C.8.1.1 with
the beta values set according to table C.10.2.4.

3\) An HSDPA call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.18.
RF parameters are set up according to table E.5.1 and table E.5.10.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

#### 5.2AB.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE.

2\) Start transmitting HSDPA Data.

3\) Measure the mean power of the UE in a bandwidth of at least (1+ α)
times the chip rate of the radio access mode. The mean power shall be
averaged over at least one timeslot and measured at each transmit
antenna connector.

### 5.2AB.5 Test requirements

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL OLTD, the
nominal maximum output power is specified in Table 5.2AB.2. The nominal
transmit power is defined by the sum of transmit power at each transmit
antenna connector.

The maximum output power, derived in step 3), shall not exceed the range
prescribed by the nominal maximum output power and tolerance in table
5.2AB.2.

Table 5.2AB.2: Nominal Maximum Output Power for UL OLTD

+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Operating     | Power Class 3 | Power Class   |       |           |
| Band          |               | 3bis          |       |           |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
|               | Power         | Tol           | Power | Tol       |
|               |               |               |       |           |
|               | (dBm)         | (dB)          | (dBm) | (dB)      |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band I        | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band II       | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band III      | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band IV       | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band V        | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band VI       | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band VII      | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band VIII     | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band IX       | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band X        | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band XI       | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band XII      | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band XIII     | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band IV       | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band XIX      | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band XX       | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band XXI      | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band XXII     | +24           | +1.7/-6.2     | 23    | +2.7/-5.2 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band XXV      | +24           | +1.7/-5.7     | 23    | +2.7/-4.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band XXVI     | +24           | +1.7/-5.7     | 23    | +2.7/-4.7 |
|               |               |               |       |           |
| (Note 1)      |               |               |       |           |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Note 1: For   |               |               |       |           |
| the UE which  |               |               |       |           |
| supports both |               |               |       |           |
| Band V and    |               |               |       |           |
| Band XXVI     |               |               |       |           |
| operating     |               |               |       |           |
| frequencies,  |               |               |       |           |
| the UE        |               |               |       |           |
| maximum       |               |               |       |           |
| output power  |               |               |       |           |
| of Band V     |               |               |       |           |
| shall apply   |               |               |       |           |
| for Band XXVI |               |               |       |           |
| when the      |               |               |       |           |
| carrier       |               |               |       |           |
| frequency of  |               |               |       |           |
| the assigned  |               |               |       |           |
| UTRA channel  |               |               |       |           |
| is within     |               |               |       |           |
| 824-845 MHz.  |               |               |       |           |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+

For the UE which supports E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation, the
lower side of the tolerance in Table 5.2 AB.2 is allowed to be decreased
by the amount given in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS 36.101\[11\] for those UTRA
operating bands corresponding to the E-UTRA operating bands that belong
to the supported inter-band carrier aggregation configurations. The
tolerance in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS 36.101\[11\] does not apply to
supported UTRA operating bands with frequency range below 1 GHz that
correspond to the E-UTRA operating bands that belong to the supported
inter-band carrier aggregation configurations when such bands are
belonging only to band combination(s) where one band is \<1GHz and
another band is \>1.7GHz and there is no harmonic relationship between
the low band UL and high band DL.

For the UE which supports DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA
configurations with uplink assigned to one UTRA band the relaxation in
Table 5.2.1a and Table 5.2.1b respectively shall be applied for
applicable bands.

In case the UE supports DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA configurations
and one or more of the E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation
configurations listed in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS 36.101\[11\] with a UTRA
operating band that belongs to UTRA and E-UTRA carrier aggregation
configurations, then:

\- When the UTRA operating band frequency range is ≤ 1GHz, the
applicable additional tolerance shall be the average of the applicable
tolerances, truncated to one decimal place for that operating band among
the supported DB-DC-HSDPA, dual band 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA CA
configurations, with the DB-DC-HSDPA, dual carrier 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA
CA configurations counted separately. In case there is a harmonic
relation between low band UL and high band DL, then the maximum
tolerance among the different supported carrier aggregation
configurations involving such band shall be applied

\- When the UTRA operating band frequency range is \>1GHz, the
applicable additional tolerance shall be the maximum tolerance that
applies for that operating band among the supported DB-DC-HSDPA, dual
band 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA CA configurations.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4 FFS.

5.2AC Maximum Output Power for UL CLTD activation state 1
---------------------------------------------------------

Editor's note: This clause is incomplete. The following aspects are
either missing or not yet determined:

\- CM distribution for CLTD Mode 1 is incomplete.

### 5.2AC.1 Definition and applicability

The nominal maximum output power with UL CLTD and its tolerance are
defined according to the Power Class of the UE.

The maximum output power is a measure of the maximum power the UE can
transmit (i.e. the actual power as would be measured assuming no
measurement error) in a bandwidth of at least (1+ α) times the chip rate
of the radio access mode. The period of measurement shall be at least
one timeslot.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL CLTD and HSDPA.

### 5.2AC.2 Minimum Requirements

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL CLTD activation
state 1, the nominal maximum output power is specified in Table 5.2AC.1.
The nominal transmit power is defined by the sum of transmit power at
each transmit antenna connector.

Table 5.2AC.1: Nominal Maximum Output Power for UL CLTD

+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Operating Band | Power Class 3 | Power Class    |       |         |
|                |               | 3bis           |       |         |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
|                | Power         | Tol            | Power | Tol     |
|                |               |                |       |         |
|                | (dBm)         | (dB)           | (dBm) | (dB)    |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band I         | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band II        | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band III       | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band IV        | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band V         | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band VI        | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band VII       | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band VIII      | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band IX        | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band X         | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band XI        | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band XII       | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band XIII      | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band IV        | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band XIX       | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band XX        | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band XXI       | +24           | +1/-4          | 23    | +2/-3   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band XXII      | +24           | +1/-5.5        | 23    | +2/-4.5 |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band XXV       | +24           | +1/-5          | 23    | +2/-4   |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Band XXVI      | +24           | +1/-5          | 23    | +2/-4   |
|                |               |                |       |         |
| (Note 1)       |               |                |       |         |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+
| Note 1 For the |               |                |       |         |
| UE which       |               |                |       |         |
| supports both  |               |                |       |         |
| Band V and     |               |                |       |         |
| Band XXVI      |               |                |       |         |
| operating      |               |                |       |         |
| frequencies,   |               |                |       |         |
| the UE maximum |               |                |       |         |
| output power   |               |                |       |         |
| of Band V      |               |                |       |         |
| shall apply    |               |                |       |         |
| for Band XXVI  |               |                |       |         |
| when the       |               |                |       |         |
| carrier        |               |                |       |         |
| frequency of   |               |                |       |         |
| the assigned   |               |                |       |         |
| UTRA channel   |               |                |       |         |
| is within      |               |                |       |         |
| 824-845 MHz.   |               |                |       |         |
+----------------+---------------+----------------+-------+---------+

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\], clause
6.2.1B.

### 5.2AC.3 Test purpose

To verify that the error of the UE maximum output power for UL CLTD
activation state 1 does not exceed the range prescribed by the nominal
maximum output power and tolerance in table 5.2.AC.1.

An excess maximum output power has the possibility to interfere to other
channels or other systems. A small maximum output power decreases the
coverage area.

### 5.2AC.4 Method of test

#### 5.2AC.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1) are specified in clauses C.10.1 and C.8.1.1 with
the beta values set according to table C.10.1.4.

3\) An HSDPA call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.17.
RF parameters are set up according to table E.5.1 and table E.5.10.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

#### 5.2AC.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE.

2\) Start transmitting HSDPA Data.

3\) Measure the mean power of the UE in a bandwidth of at least (1+ α)
times the chip rate of the radio access mode. The mean power shall be
averaged over at least one timeslot and measured at each transmit
antenna connector.

### 5.2AC.5 Test requirements

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL CLTD activation
state 1, the nominal maximum output power is specified in Table 5.2AC.2.
The nominal transmit power is defined by the sum of transmit power at
each transmit antenna connector.

The maximum output power, derived in step 3), shall not exceed the range
prescribed by the nominal maximum output power and tolerance in table
5.2AC.2.

Table 5.2AC.2: Nominal Maximum Output Power for UL CLTD

+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Operating     | Power Class 3 | Power Class   |       |           |
| Band          |               | 3bis          |       |           |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
|               | Power         | Tol           | Power | Tol       |
|               |               |               |       |           |
|               | (dBm)         | (dB)          | (dBm) | (dB)      |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band I        | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band II       | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band III      | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band IV       | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band V        | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band VI       | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band VII      | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band VIII     | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band IX       | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band X        | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band XI       | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band XII      | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band XIII     | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band IV       | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band XIX      | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band XX       | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band XXI      | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | 23    | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band XXII     | +24           | +1.7/-6.2     | 23    | +2.7/-5.2 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band XXV      | +24           | +1.7/-5.7     | 23    | +2.7/-4.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Band XXVI     | +24           | +1.7/-5.7     | 23    | +2.7/-4.7 |
|               |               |               |       |           |
| (Note 1)      |               |               |       |           |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Note 1: For   |               |               |       |           |
| the UE which  |               |               |       |           |
| supports both |               |               |       |           |
| Band V and    |               |               |       |           |
| Band XXVI     |               |               |       |           |
| operating     |               |               |       |           |
| frequencies,  |               |               |       |           |
| the UE        |               |               |       |           |
| maximum       |               |               |       |           |
| output power  |               |               |       |           |
| of Band V     |               |               |       |           |
| shall apply   |               |               |       |           |
| for Band XXVI |               |               |       |           |
| when the      |               |               |       |           |
| carrier       |               |               |       |           |
| frequency of  |               |               |       |           |
| the assigned  |               |               |       |           |
| UTRA channel  |               |               |       |           |
| is within     |               |               |       |           |
| 824-845 MHz.  |               |               |       |           |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+

For the UE which supports E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation, the
lower side of the tolerance in Table 5.2 AC.2 is allowed to be decreased
by the amount given in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS 36.101\[11\] for those UTRA
operating bands corresponding to the E-UTRA operating bands that belong
to the supported inter-band carrier aggregation configurations. The
tolerance in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS 36.101\[11\] does not apply to
supported UTRA operating bands with frequency range below 1 GHz that
correspond to the E-UTRA operating bands that belong to the supported
inter-band carrier aggregation configurations when such bands are
belonging only to band combination(s) where one band is \<1GHz and
another band is \>1.7GHz and there is no harmonic relationship between
the low band UL and high band DL.

For the UE which supports DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA
configurations with uplink assigned to one UTRA band the relaxation in
Table 5.2.1a and Table 5.2.1b respectively shall be applied for
applicable bands.

In case the UE supports DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA configurations
and one or more of the E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation
configurations listed in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS36.101\[11\] with a UTRA
operating band that belongs to UTRA and E-UTRA carrier aggregation
configurations, then

\- When the UTRA operating band frequency range is ≤ 1GHz, the
applicable additional tolerance shall be the average of the applicable
tolerances, truncated to one decimal place for that operating band among
the supported DB-DC-HSDPA, dual band 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA CA
configurations, with the DB-DC-HSDPA, dual carrier 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA
CA configurations counted separately. In case there is a harmonic
relation between low band UL and high band DL, then the maximum
tolerance among the different supported carrier aggregation
configurations involving such band shall be applied

\- When the UTRA operating band frequency range is \>1GHz, the
applicable additional tolerance shall be the maximum tolerance that
applies for that operating band among the supported DB-DC-HSDPA, dual
band 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA CA configurations.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.2AD Maximum Output Power for UL CLTD activation state 2 and 3
---------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.2AD.1 Definition and applicability

The nominal maximum output power with UL CLTD and its tolerance are
defined according to the Power Class of the UE.

The maximum output power is a measure of the maximum power the UE can
transmit (i.e. the actual power as would be measured assuming no
measurement error) in a bandwidth of at least (1+ α) times the chip rate
of the radio access mode. The period of measurement shall be at least
one timeslot.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL CLTD and HSDPA.

### 5.2AD.2 Minimum Requirements

For UE configured in UL CLTD activation state 2 or activation state 3,
the nominal maximum output power specified in table 5.2AD.1 applies at
the active transmit antenna connector.

Table 5.2AD.1: Nominal Maximum Output Power

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Operating Band</td>
<td>Power Class 1</td>
<td>Power Class 2</td>
<td>Power Class 3</td>
<td>Power Class 3bis</td>
<td>Power Class 4</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td><p>Power</p>
<p>(dBm)</p></td>
<td><p>Tol</p>
<p>(dB)</p></td>
<td><p>Power</p>
<p>(dBm)</p></td>
<td><p>Tol</p>
<p>(dB)</p></td>
<td><p>Power</p>
<p>(dBm)</p></td>
<td><p>Tol</p>
<p>(dB)</p></td>
<td><p>Power</p>
<p>(dBm)</p></td>
<td><p>Tol</p>
<p>(dB)</p></td>
<td><p>Power</p>
<p>(dBm)</p></td>
<td><p>Tol</p>
<p>(dB)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band I</td>
<td>+33</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+27</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band II</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band III</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band IV</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band V</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band VI</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band VII</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band VIII</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band IX</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band X</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band XI</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band XII</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band XIII</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band XIV</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band XIX</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band XX</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band XXI</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-3</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band XXII</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-4.5</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-3.5</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-3.5</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band XXV</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-4</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-3</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-3</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Band XXVI</p>
<p>(Note 1)</p></td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1/-4</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2/-3</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2/-3</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>NOTE 1: For the UE which supports both Band V and Band XXVI operating frequencies, the UE maximum output power of Band V shall apply for Band XXVI when the carrier frequency of the assigned UTRA channel is within 824-845 MHz.</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\], clause
6.2.1B.

### 5.2AD.3 Test purpose

To verify that the error of the UE maximum output power with UL CLTD
activation state 2 and 3 does not exceed the range prescribed by the
nominal maximum output power and tolerance in table 5.2.AD.1.

An excess maximum output power has the possibility to interfere to other
channels or other systems. A small maximum output power decreases the
coverage area.

### 5.2AD.4 Method of test

#### 5.2AD.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1) are specified in clauses C.10.1 and C.8.1.1 with
the beta values set according to table C.10.1.4.

3\) An HSDPA call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.17
with the following exception in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages in table
5.2AD.1.1.This exception allows the call to be setup with initial UL
CLTD activation state as state 2. RF parameters are set up according to
table E.5.1 and table E.5.10.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

Table 5.2AD.1.1: Contents of Radio bearer setup message

  ---------------------------------- -------------- ---------
  Information Element                Value/remark   Version
  Uplink CLTD info FDD                              Rel-11
  \- CHOICE *Mode*                   New            
  \- Initial CLTD activation state   Second state   
  ---------------------------------- -------------- ---------

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

#### 5.2AD.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set and send continuously up power control commands to the UE.

2\) Start transmitting HSDPA Data.

3\) Measure the mean power of the UE in a bandwidth of at least (1+ α)
times the chip rate of the radio access mode. The mean power shall be
averaged over at least one timeslot and is measured at the active
transmit antenna connector.

4\) SS sends a HS-SCCH order activating UL\_CLTD activation state 3

5\) Repeat step 1 to 3 for activation state 3.

### 5.2AD.5 Test requirements

For UE configured in UL CLTD activation state 2 or activation state 3,
the nominal maximum output power specified in table 5.2AD.2 applies at
the active transmit antenna connector.

The maximum output power, derived in step 3) for activation 2 and 3,
shall not exceed the range prescribed by the nominal maximum output
power and tolerance in table 5.2AD.2.

Table 5.2AD.2: Nominal Maximum Output Power

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Operating Band</td>
<td>Power Class 1</td>
<td>Power Class 2</td>
<td>Power Class 3</td>
<td>Power Class 3bis</td>
<td>Power Class 4</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td><p>Power</p>
<p>(dBm)</p></td>
<td><p>Tol</p>
<p>(dB)</p></td>
<td><p>Power</p>
<p>(dBm)</p></td>
<td><p>Tol</p>
<p>(dB)</p></td>
<td><p>Power</p>
<p>(dBm)</p></td>
<td><p>Tol</p>
<p>(dB)</p></td>
<td><p>Power</p>
<p>(dBm)</p></td>
<td><p>Tol</p>
<p>(dB)</p></td>
<td><p>Power</p>
<p>(dBm)</p></td>
<td><p>Tol</p>
<p>(dB)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band I</td>
<td>+33</td>
<td>+/-TT</td>
<td>+27</td>
<td>+/-TT</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band II</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band III</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band IV</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band V</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band VI</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band VII</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band VIII</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band IX</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band X</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band XI</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band XII</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band XIII</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band XIV</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band XIX</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band XX</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band XXI</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-2,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Band XXII</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-5.2</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-4.2</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2.7/-4.2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Band XXV</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-4,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-3,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Band XXVI</p>
<p>(Note 1)</p></td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>+24</td>
<td>+1,7/-4,7</td>
<td>+23</td>
<td>+2,7/-3,7</td>
<td>+21</td>
<td>+2,7/-3,7</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>NOTE 1: For the UE which supports both Band V and Band XXVI operating frequencies, the UE maximum output power of Band V shall apply for Band XXVI when the carrier frequency of the assigned UTRA channel is within 824‑845 MHz.</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

For the UE which supports E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation, the
lower side of the tolerance in Table 5.2AD.2 is allowed to be decreased
by the amount given in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS 36.101\[11\] for those UTRA
operating bands corresponding to the E-UTRA operating bands that belong
to the supported inter-band carrier aggregation configurations. The
tolerance in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS 36.101\[11\] does not apply to
supported UTRA operating bands with frequency range below 1 GHz that
correspond to the E-UTRA operating bands that belong to the supported
inter-band carrier aggregation configurations when such bands are
belonging only to band combination(s) where one band is \<1GHz and
another band is \>1.7GHz and there is no harmonic relationship between
the low band UL and high band DL.

For the UE which supports DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA
configurations with uplink assigned to one UTRA band the relaxation in
Table 5.2.1a and Table 5.2.1b respectively shall be applied for
applicable bands.

In case the UE supports DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA configurations
and one or more of the E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation
configurations listed in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS36.101\[11\] with a UTRA
operating band that belongs to UTRA and E-UTRA carrier aggregation
configurations, then

\- When the UTRA operating band frequency range is ≤ 1GHz, the
applicable additional tolerance shall be the average of the applicable
tolerances, truncated to one decimal place for that operating band among
the supported DB-DC-HSDPA, dual band 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA CA
configurations, with the DB-DC-HSDPA, dual carrier 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA
CA configurations counted separately. In case there is a harmonic
relation between low band UL and high band DL, then the maximum
tolerance among the different supported carrier aggregation
configurations involving such band shall be applied

\- When the UTRA operating band frequency range is \>1GHz, the
applicable additional tolerance shall be the maximum tolerance that
applies for that operating band among the supported DB-DC-HSDPA, dual
band 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA CA configurations.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.2B Maximum Output Power with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH
-------------------------------------------------

### 5.2B.1 Definition and applicability

The maximum output power with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH and its tolerance are
defined according to the UE Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for the
nominal maximum output power.

The maximum output power with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH is a measure of the
maximum power the UE can transmit when HS-DPCCH and E-DCH is fully or
partially transmitted during a DPCCH timeslot. The measurement period
shall be at least one timeslot.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 6 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA and E-DCH.

### 5.2B.2 Minimum Requirements

The UE Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for the nominal maximum output
power shall be within the value and tolerance specified in table 5.2B.1
for when the values of β~c~^,^ β~d~^,^ β~hs,~ β~ec~ and β~ed~ is fully
or partially transmitted during a DPCCH timeslot.

Table 5.2B.1: Maximum Output Power with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------------
  UE transmit channel configuration                                                                                                                                                  CM (dB)        MPR (dB)
  For all combinations of; DPDCH, DPCCH, HS‑DPCCH, E-DPDCH and E-DPCCH                                                                                                               0 ≤ CM ≤ 3.5   MAX (CM-1, 0)
  NOTE 1: CM = 1 for β~c~/β~d~ =12/15, β~hs~/β~c~=24/15. For all other combinations of DPDCH, DPCCH, HS-DPCCH, E-DPDCH and E-DPCCH the MPR is based on the relative CM difference.                  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------------

Where Cubic Metric (CM) is based on the UE transmit channel
configuration and is given by:

CM = CEIL { \[20 \* log10 ((v\_norm ^3^) ~rms~) - 20 \* log10
((v\_norm\_ref ^3^) ~rms~)\] / k, 0.5 }

Where

\- CEIL{ x, 0.5 } means rounding upwards to closest 0.5dB, i.e. CM ∈
\[0, 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.5\]

\- k is 1.85 for signals where all channelisations codes meet the
following criteria C~SF,\ N~ where N\< SF/2

\- k is 1.56 for signals were any channelisations codes meet the
following criteria C~SF,\ N~ where N ≥ SF/2

\- v\_norm is the normalized voltage waveform of the input signal

\- v\_norm\_ref is the normalized voltage waveform of the reference
signal (12.2 kbps AMR Speech) and 20 \* log10 ((v\_norm\_ref^3^)~rms~) =
1.52 dB

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\], clause
6.2.2.

### 5.2B.3 Test purpose

To verify that the error of the UE maximum output power with HS-DPCCH
and E-DCH does not exceed the range prescribed by the maximum output
power and tolerance in table 5.2B.5.

An excess maximum output power may interfere with other channels or
other systems. A small maximum output power decreases the coverage area.

### 5.2B.4 Method of test

#### 5.2B.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.1.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK) are specified in Annex C.11.1 and C.8.1.1.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.9 with the
following exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages. These
exceptions allow the beta values to be set according to table C.11.1.3
and each UL physical channel to be at constant power during the
measurement. RF parameters are set up according to table E.5A.1.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.2B.4A.

4\) For sub-test 1 to 4, enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping
back both the 12.2kbps RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH according to procedure
7.3.9.3.1 in TS 34.108 \[3\] and start the loopback test. For sub-test
5, enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping back HSDPA to E-DCH
according to procedure 7.3.9.3.2 in TS 34.108 \[3\] and start the
loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.2B.1A: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test
Loop Mode1)

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------
  Information Element                                                                      Value/Remark
  UL Transport channel information for all transport channels                              
  \- 2bit CTFC                                                                             3
  \- Power offset Information                                                              
  \- CHOICE Gain Factors                                                                   Signalled Gain Factors
  \- CHOICE mode                                                                           FDD
  \- Gain factor ßc                                                                        Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.3
  \- Gain factor ßd                                                                        Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.3
  CHOICE channel requirement                                                               Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm                                                               Algorithm2
  NOTE: All other 2 bit CTFC values use computed gain factors as in the default message.   
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------

Table 5.2B.2: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA) for Sub-tests 1,2,4

  ------------------------ ------------------
  Information Element      Value/Remark
  E-DCH info               Uplink DPCH info
  \- E-DPDCH info          
  \- Reference E-TFCIs     5 E-TFCIs
  \- Reference E-TFCI      11
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   4
  \- Reference E-TFCI      67
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   18
  \- Reference E-TFCI      71
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   23
  \- Reference E-TFCI      75
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   26
  \- Reference E-TFCI      81
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   27
  ------------------------ ------------------

Table 5.2B.3: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA) for Sub-test 3

  ------------------------ ------------------
  Information Element      Value/Remark
  E-DCH info               Uplink DPCH info
  \- E-DPDCH info          
  \- Reference E-TFCIs     2 E-TFCIs
  \- Reference E-TFCI      11
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   4
  \- Reference E-TFCI      92
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   18
  ------------------------ ------------------

Table 5.2B.3A: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA) -condition A3 for Sub-test 5

  --------------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element               Value/Remark
  E-DCH info                        Uplink DPCH info
  \- E-DPDCH info                   
  \- E-DCH minimum set of E-TFCI    67
  \- Reference E-TFCIs              1 E-TFCI
  \- Reference E-TFCI               67
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO            18
  \- Maximum channelisation codes   Sf4
  --------------------------------- ------------------

Table 5.2B.4: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA)

+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| Information Element             | Value/Remark                      |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| CHOICE channel requirement      | Uplink DPCH info                  |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| \- Power Control Algorithm      | For sub-test 1 to 4: Algorithm2   |
|                                 |                                   |
|                                 | For sub-test 5: Algorithm 1       |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| \- ∆ACK                         | Value used in test: see Table     |
|                                 | C.11.1.3                          |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| \- ∆NACK                        | Value used in test: see Table     |
|                                 | C.11.1.3                          |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| \- Ack-Nack repetition factor   | 3 (required for continuous        |
|                                 | HS-DPCCH signal)                  |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| E-DCH info                      |                                   |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| \- E-DPCCH/DPCCH power offset   | Value used in test: see Table     |
|                                 | C.11.1.3                          |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| Downlink HS-PDSCH Information   |                                   |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| **- Measurement Feedback Info** |                                   |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| \- CQI Feedback cycle, k        | 4 ms                              |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| \- CQI repetition factor        | 2 (required for continuous        |
|                                 | HS-DPCCH signal)                  |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| \- ∆CQI                         | Value used in test: see Table     |
|                                 | C.11.1.3                          |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

Table 5.2B.4A: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement\
of Maximum Output Power with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.2B.4.1                 |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

#### 5.2B.4.2 Procedure

##### 5.2B.4.2.1 Procedure for sub-test 1 to 4 {#b.4.2.1-procedure-for-sub-test-1-to-4 .H6}

> 1\) Set the Absolute Grant according to Table C.11.1.3.

2\) The SS starts transmitting HSDPA and the UE loops the received data
back on E-DCH.

> 3\) Set the UE power to be at least 7.5dB lower than the maximum
> output power. Wait 150 ms.
>
> 4\) Send power control bits to give one TPC\_cmd = +1 command to the
> UE.
>
> 5\) The SS checks the received E-TFCI for 150 ms. If UE does not send
> any decreased E-TFCI (DTX on E‑DPDCH is also considered decreased
> E-TFCI) within the 150ms then go back to step (4) otherwise proceed to
> step 6).
>
> 6\) Send power control bits to give one TPC\_cmd = -1 command to the
> UE and wait 150ms.
>
> 7\) The SS checks the received E-TFCI for 150 ms. If UE sends any
> decreased E-TFCI (DTX on E-DPDCH is also considered decreased E-TFCI)
> within the 150ms, then send new power control bits to give another
> TPC\_cmd = -1 command to the UE and wait 150ms.
>
> 8\) Confirm that the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is equal to the
> target E-TFCI in Table C.11.1.3. If the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE
> is not equal to the target E-TFCI, then fail the UE.
>
> 9\) Measure the mean power of the UE. The mean power shall be averaged
> over at least one timeslot.

10\) Repeat the measurement for the different combinations of beta
values for sub-test 1 to 4 as given in table C.11.1.3.

##### 5.2B.4.2.2 Procedure for sub-test 5 {#b.4.2.2-procedure-for-sub-test-5 .H6}

> 1\) Set the Absolute Grant according to sub-test 5 in Table C.11.1.3.

2\) The SS starts transmitting HSDPA and the UE loops the received data
back on E-DCH.

> 3\) Set the UE power to be at least 7.5dB lower than the maximum
> output power. Wait 150ms.

4\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE. Wait
150ms.

5\) Measure the mean power of the UE. The mean power shall be averaged
over at least one timeslot.

### 5.2B.5 Test requirements

The maximum output power with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH, derived in step 9),
shall not exceed the range prescribed by the maximum output power and
tolerance in table 5.2B.5 or 5.2B.6 depending on tested band. Note:

The UL reference measurement channel for TX test will be set as defined
in C.11.1 with the power ratio between HS-DPCH, DPCCH, DPDCH, E-DPCCH
and E-DPDCH being set to the values defined in table C.11.1.3.

Table 5.2B.5: Maximum Output Powers with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH for test

+----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Sub-test in table C.11.1.3 | Power Class 3 | Power Class 4 |       |           |
+----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
|                            | Power         | Tol           | Power | Tol       |
|                            |               |               |       |           |
|                            | (dBm)         | (dB)          | (dBm) | (dB)      |
+----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 1                          | +24           | +1.7/-6.7     | +21   | +2.7/-5.7 |
+----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 2                          | +22           | +3.7/-5.2     | +19   | +4.7/-4.2 |
+----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 3                          | +23           | +2.7/-5.2     | +20   | +3.7/-4.2 |
+----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 4                          | +22           | +3.7/-5.2     | +19   | +4.7/-4.2 |
+----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 5                          | +24           | +1.7/-3.7     | +21   | +2.7/-2.7 |
+----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+

For the UE which supports E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation, the
lower side of the tolerance in Table 5.2B.5 and 5.2B.6 is allowed to be
decreased by the amount given in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS 36.101\[11\] for
those UTRA operating bands corresponding to the E-UTRA operating bands
that belong to the supported inter-band carrier aggregation
configurations. The tolerance in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS 36.101\[11\] does
not apply to supported UTRA operating bands with frequency range below 1
GHz that correspond to the E-UTRA operating bands that belong to the
supported inter-band carrier aggregation configurations when such bands
are belonging only to band combination(s) where one band is \<1GHz and
another band is \>1.7GHz and there is no harmonic relationship between
the low band UL and high band DL.

For the UE which supports DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA
configurations with uplink assigned to one UTRA band the relaxation in
Table 5.2.1a and Table 5.2.1b respectively shall be applied for
applicable bands.

In case the UE supports DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA configurations
and one or more of the E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation
configurations listed in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS36.101\[11\] with a UTRA
operating band that belongs to UTRA and E-UTRA carrier aggregation
configurations, then

\- When the UTRA operating band frequency range is ≤ 1GHz, the
applicable additional tolerance shall be the average of the applicable
tolerances, truncated to one decimal place for that operating band among
the supported DB-DC-HSDPA, dual band 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA CA
configurations, with the DB-DC-HSDPA, dual carrier 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA
CA configurations counted separately. In case there is a harmonic
relation between low band UL and high band DL, then the maximum
tolerance among the different supported carrier aggregation
configurations involving such band shall be applied

\- When the UTRA operating band frequency range is \>1GHz, the
applicable additional tolerance shall be the maximum tolerance that
applies for that operating band among the supported DB-DC-HSDPA, dual
band 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA CA configurations.

Table 5.2B.6: Maximum Output Powers with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH for test in
bands XXV and XXVI

+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Sub-test in   | Power Class 3 | Power Class 4 |       |           |
| table         |               |               |       |           |
| C.11.1.3      |               |               |       |           |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
|               | Power         | Tol           | Power | Tol       |
|               |               |               |       |           |
|               | (dBm)         | (dB)          | (dBm) | (dB)      |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 1             | +24           | +1.7/-7.7     | +21   | +2.7/-6.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 2             | +22           | +3.7/-6.2     | +19   | +4.7/-5.2 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 3             | +23           | +2.7/-6.2     | +20   | +3.7/-5.2 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 4             | +22           | +3.7/-6.2     | +19   | +4.7/-5.2 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 5             | +24           | +1.7/-4.7     | +21   | +2.7/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| NOTE 1: For   |               |               |       |           |
| the UE which  |               |               |       |           |
| supports both |               |               |       |           |
| Band V and    |               |               |       |           |
| Band XXVI     |               |               |       |           |
| operating     |               |               |       |           |
| frequencies,  |               |               |       |           |
| the UE        |               |               |       |           |
| maximum       |               |               |       |           |
| output power  |               |               |       |           |
| of Band V     |               |               |       |           |
| shall apply   |               |               |       |           |
| for Band XXVI |               |               |       |           |
| when the      |               |               |       |           |
| carrier       |               |               |       |           |
| frequency of  |               |               |       |           |
| the assigned  |               |               |       |           |
| UTRA channel  |               |               |       |           |
| is within     |               |               |       |           |
| 824-845 MHz.  |               |               |       |           |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+

NOTE 1: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

NOTE 2: The test procedure for sub-test 1 to 4 will result in a power
slightly below the maximum, and therefore the lower limits in Table
5.2B.5 are made lower by 1.5 dB.

NOTE 3: The test procedure allows UE to decrease its maximum transmit
power for E-TFC selection in sub-test 1, and therefore the lower limits
of sub-test 1 in Table 5.2B.5 are made lower by 1.5 dB.

NOTE 4: For subtests 2, 3 and 4, UE may perform E-DPDCH power scaling at
max power which could results in slightly smaller MPR values.

5.2BA UE Maximum Output Power for DC-HSUPA (QPSK) 
-------------------------------------------------

Editor's note: This clause is incomplete. The following aspects are
either missing or not yet determined:

\- The MPR values are need to be updated.

### 5.2BA.1 Definition and applicability

The maximum output power with DC-HSUPA and its tolerance are defined
according to the UE Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for the nominal
maximum output power.

The maximum output power with DC-HSUPA is a measure of the maximum power
the UE can transmit when HS-DPCCH and E-DCH is fully or partially
transmitted during a DPCCH timeslot. For DC-HSUPA, the nominal transmit
power is defined by the sum of the broadband transmit power of each
carrier in the UE. The measurement period shall be at least one
timeslot.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 9 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA and Dual Cell E-DCH.

### 5.2BA.2 Minimum Requirements

The Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for the nominal maximum output power
shall be within the value and tolerance specified for the values of
β~c~^,^ β~d~^,^ β~hs,~ β~ec~ and β~ed~ is fully or partially transmitted
during a DPCCH timeslot and defined through calculation of the Raw Cubic
Metric (Raw CM) which is based on the UE transmit channel configuration
and is given by:

Raw CM = 20 \* log10 ((v\_norm ^3^) ~rms~) - 20 \* log10 ((v\_norm\_ref
^3^) ~rms~)

Where:

\- v\_norm is the normalized voltage waveform of the input signal

\- v\_norm\_ref is the normalized voltage waveform of the reference
signal (12.2 kbps AMR Speech) and

\- 20 \* log10 ((v\_norm\_ref ^3^) ~rms~) = 1.52 dB

For any DC-HSUPA signal not employing 16QAM modulation on any of the
carriers, and for any DC-HSUPA signal having Raw CM \< \[2.5\], the MPR
is specified in Table 5.2BA.1.

Table 5.2BA.1: UE maximum output power for DC-HSUPA signals not
employing\
16QAM modulation, and DC-HSUPA signals having Raw CM \< \[2.5\]

  --------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ------------------
  UE transmit channel configuration                               CM (dB)            MPR (dB)
  For all combinations of; DPCCH, HS-DPCCH, E-DPDCH and E-DPCCH   0.22 ≤ CM ≤ 3.72   MAX (CM-0.72, 0)
  --------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ------------------

Where Cubic Metric (CM) is based on the Raw Cubic Metric and is given by

CM = CEIL { Raw CM / k, 0.22 }

Where:

\- CEIL { x, 0.22 } means rounding upwards to closest 0.22dB with 0.5 dB
granularity, i.e. CM \[0.22, 0.72, 1.22, 1.72, 2.22, 2.72, 3.22, 3.72\]

\- k is 1.66

For any DC-HSUPA signal employing 16QAM modulation on any of the
carriers and having Raw CM ≥ \[2.5\], the MPR is specified in Table
5.2BA.2.

Table 5.2BA.2: UE maximum output power for DC-HSUPA signals employing\
16QAM modulation and having RAW CM ≥ \[2.5\]

  --------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------- ----------------------
  UE transmit channel configuration                               CM (dB)                    MPR (dB)
  For all combinations of; DPCCH, HS-DPCCH, E-DPDCH and E-DPCCH   \[2.24\] ≤ CM ≤ \[5.24\]   MAX (CM-\[1.24\], 0)
  --------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------- ----------------------

Where Cubic Metric (CM) is based on the Raw Cubic Metric and is given
by:

CM = CEIL { Raw CM / k, \[0.24\] }

Where:

\- CEIL { x, 0.24 } means rounding upwards to closest 0.24dB with 0.5 dB
granularity, i.e. CM = \[2.24, 2.74, 3.24, 3.74, 4.24, 4.74, 5.24\]

\- k is \[1.23\] for DC-HSUPA signals employing 16QAM modulation and
having Raw CM ≥ \[2.5\]

It is necessary to verify this requirement only for the DC-HSUPA
configurations specified in clause C.2.8.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\], clause
6.2.2A.

### 5.2BA.3 Test purpose

To verify that the error of the UE maximum output power with DC-HSUPA
does not exceed the range prescribed by the maximum output power and
tolerance in table 5.2BA.6.

An excess maximum output power may interfere with other channels or
other systems. A small maximum output power decreases the coverage area.

### 5.2BA.4 Method of test

#### 5.2BA.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.41.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and parameters are specified in
clauses C.2.6, C.2.8 and C.11A. The DL Reference Measurement Channel
(FRC H-SET 3A, QPSK) is specified in C.8.1.1.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.14. RF
parameters are set up according to table E.5A.1A. Settings for the
serving cell are defined in table 5.2BA.5.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping back HSDPA to E-DCH
according to procedure 7.3.14.3 in TS 34.108 \[3\] and start the
loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.2BA.3: Void

Table 5.2BA.4: Void

Table 5.2BA.5: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement\
of Maximum Output Power with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.2BA.4.1                |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

#### 5.2BA.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set the Absolute Grant according to Table C.11A.1.1.

2\) The SS starts transmitting HSDPA and the UE loops the received data
back on E-DCH.

3\) Generate suitable TPC commands to each individual carrier from the
SS to set the total power in each of the assigned carriers according to
one of the configurations in table 5.2BA.5A and the total output power
of the UE to be at least 7.5dB lower than the maximum output power. Wait
150ms.

4\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to both carriers
to the UE and wait 150ms.

5\) Measure the mean power of each carrier of the UE. The mean power
shall be averaged over at least one timeslot. The maximum output power
is the sum of the broadband transmit power of each carrier in the UE.

6\) The SS shall verify that UE is still in a DC-HSUPA call by verifying
that UE transmits signal on each carrier. If UE is not transmitting
signal on each carrier the SS shall fail the UE in this test.

7\) Repeat steps 1-6 for all the different combinations of beta values
as given in tables C.11A.1.1.

8\) Repeat steps 1-7 for all the different configurations given in table
5.2BA.5A

Table 5.2BA.5A: Settings for E-DPDCH and for uplink power control

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Config \#   | Primary     | Secondary   | Power       | Allowed MPR |
|             | carrier     | carrier     | difference  | \[dB\]      |
|             |             |             | of\         |             |
|             |             |             | total power |             |
|             |             |             | primary     |             |
|             |             |             | carrier --  |             |
|             |             |             | total power |             |
|             |             |             | secondary   |             |
|             |             |             | carrier     |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 1           | BPSK        | BPSK        | -10 dB      | \[0.5\]     |
|             |             |             | ± 1.7 dB    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 2           | BPSK        | BPSK        | 8 dB ± 1.7  | \[1.0\]     |
|             |             |             | dB          |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 3           | BPSK        | BPSK        | 0 dB ± 1.7  | \[1.5\]     |
|             |             |             | dB          |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| NOTE 1:     |             |             |             |             |
| This table  |             |             |             |             |
| represents  |             |             |             |             |
| the         |             |             |             |             |
| applicable  |             |             |             |             |
| con         |             |             |             |             |
| figurations |             |             |             |             |
| defined in  |             |             |             |             |
| table       |             |             |             |             |
| C.2.8.1.    |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| NOTE 2: The |             |             |             |             |
| power       |             |             |             |             |
| differences |             |             |             |             |
| are used to |             |             |             |             |
| achieve the |             |             |             |             |
| power       |             |             |             |             |
| imbalances  |             |             |             |             |
| defined in  |             |             |             |             |
| table       |             |             |             |             |
| C.2.8.1.    |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| NOTE3: A    |             |             |             |             |
| power       |             |             |             |             |
| difference  |             |             |             |             |
| of -10dB in |             |             |             |             |
| config \#1  |             |             |             |             |
| means that  |             |             |             |             |
| the total   |             |             |             |             |
| power in    |             |             |             |             |
| the primary |             |             |             |             |
| carrier is  |             |             |             |             |
| 10dB lower  |             |             |             |             |
| than the    |             |             |             |             |
| total power |             |             |             |             |
| in the      |             |             |             |             |
| secondary   |             |             |             |             |
| carrier.    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

### 5.2BA.5 Test requirements

The maximum output power with DC-HSUPA, derived in step 6), shall not
exceed the range prescribed by the maximum output power and tolerance in
table 5.2BA.6 or 5.2BA.7 depending on tested band.

The UL reference measurement channel for TX test will be set as defined
in C.2.6 and C.2.7 with the power ratio between HS-DPCH, DPCCH, DPDCH,
E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH being set to the values defined in tables C.11A.1.1.

Table 5.2BA.6: Maximum Output Power for DC-HSUPA test

+-----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Sub-test in table C.11A.1.1 | Power Class 3 | Power Class 4 |       |           |
+-----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
|                             | Power         | Tol           | Power | Tol       |
|                             |               |               |       |           |
|                             | (dBm)         | (dB)          | (dBm) | (dB)      |
+-----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 1                           | +22.5         | +3.2/-3.7     | +19.5 | +4.2/-2.7 |
+-----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+

For the UE which supports E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation, the
lower side of the tolerance in Table 5.2BA.6 and 5.2BA.7 is allowed to
be decreased by the amount given in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS 36.101\[11\] for
those UTRA operating bands corresponding to the E-UTRA operating bands
that belong to the supported inter-band carrier aggregation
configurations. The tolerance in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS 36.101\[11\] does
not apply to supported UTRA operating bands with frequency range below 1
GHz that correspond to the E-UTRA operating bands that belong to the
supported inter-band carrier aggregation configurations when such bands
are belonging only to band combination(s) where one band is \<1GHz and
another band is \>1.7GHz and there is no harmonic relationship between
the low band UL and high band DL.

For the UE which supports DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA
configurations with uplink assigned to one UTRA band the relaxation in
Table 5.2.1a and Table 5.2.1b respectively shall be applied for
applicable bands.

In case the UE supports DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA configurations
and one or more of the E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation
configurations listed in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS36.101\[11\] with a UTRA
operating band that belongs to UTRA and E-UTRA carrier aggregation
configurations, then

\- When the UTRA operating band frequency range is ≤ 1GHz, the
applicable additional tolerance shall be the average of the applicable
tolerances, truncated to one decimal place for that operating band among
the supported DB-DC-HSDPA, dual band 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA CA
configurations, with the DB-DC-HSDPA, dual carrier 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA
CA configurations counted separately. In case there is a harmonic
relation between low band UL and high band DL, then the maximum
tolerance among the different supported carrier aggregation
configurations involving such band shall be applied

\- When the UTRA operating band frequency range is \>1GHz, the
applicable additional tolerance shall be the maximum tolerance that
applies for that operating band among the supported DB-DC-HSDPA, dual
band 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA CA configurations.

Table 5.2BA.7: Maximum Output Power for DC-HSUPA test in bands XXV and
XXVI

+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Sub-test in   | Power Class 3 | Power Class 4 |       |           |
| table         |               |               |       |           |
| C.11A.1.1     |               |               |       |           |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
|               | Power         | Tol           | Power | Tol       |
|               |               |               |       |           |
|               | (dBm)         | (dB)          | (dBm) | (dB)      |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 1             | +22.5         | +3.2/-4.7     | +19.5 | +4.2/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| NOTE 1: For   |               |               |       |           |
| the UE which  |               |               |       |           |
| supports both |               |               |       |           |
| Band V and    |               |               |       |           |
| Band XXVI     |               |               |       |           |
| operating     |               |               |       |           |
| frequencies,  |               |               |       |           |
| the UE        |               |               |       |           |
| maximum       |               |               |       |           |
| output power  |               |               |       |           |
| of Band V     |               |               |       |           |
| shall apply   |               |               |       |           |
| for Band XXVI |               |               |       |           |
| when the      |               |               |       |           |
| carrier       |               |               |       |           |
| frequency of  |               |               |       |           |
| the assigned  |               |               |       |           |
| UTRA channel  |               |               |       |           |
| is within     |               |               |       |           |
| 824-845 MHz.  |               |               |       |           |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.2BB UE Maximum Output Power for DC-HSUPA (16QAM)
--------------------------------------------------

Editor's note: This clause is incomplete. The following aspects are
either missing or not yet determined:

\- The MPR value is TBD.

### 5.2BB.1 Definition and applicability

The maximum output power with DC-HSUPA and its tolerance are defined
according to the UE Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for the nominal
maximum output power.

The maximum output power with DC-HSUPA is a measure of the maximum power
the UE can transmit when HS-DPCCH and E-DCH is fully or partially
transmitted during a DPCCH timeslot. For DC-HSUPA, the nominal transmit
power is defined by the sum of the broadband transmit power of each
carrier in the UE. The measurement period shall be at least one
timeslot.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 9 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA and Dual Cell E-DCH
16QAM UE capability category 9.

### 5.2BB.2 Minimum Requirements

The Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for the nominal maximum output power
shall be within the value and tolerance specified for the values of
β~c~^,^ β~d~^,^ β~hs,~ β~ec~ and β~ed~ is fully or partially transmitted
during a DPCCH timeslot and defined through calculation of the Raw Cubic
Metric (Raw CM) which is based on the UE transmit channel configuration
and is given by:

Raw CM = 20 \* log10 ((v\_norm ^3^) ~rms~) - 20 \* log10 ((v\_norm\_ref
^3^) ~rms~)

Where:

\- v\_norm is the normalized voltage waveform of the input signal

\- v\_norm\_ref is the normalized voltage waveform of the reference
signal (12.2 kbps AMR Speech) and

\- 20 \* log10 ((v\_norm\_ref ^3^) ~rms~) = 1.52 dB

For any DC-HSUPA signal not employing 16QAM modulation on any of the
carriers, and for any DC-HSUPA signal having Raw CM \< \[2.5\], the MPR
is specified in Table 5.2BB.1.

Table 5.2BB.1: UE maximum output power for DC-HSUPA signals not
employing\
16QAM modulation, and DC-HSUPA signals having Raw CM \< \[2.5\]

  --------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ------------------
  UE transmit channel configuration                               CM (dB)            MPR (dB)
  For all combinations of; DPCCH, HS-DPCCH, E-DPDCH and E-DPCCH   0.22 ≤ CM ≤ 3.72   MAX (CM-0.72, 0)
  --------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ------------------

Where Cubic Metric (CM) is based on the Raw Cubic Metric and is given by

CM = CEIL { Raw CM / k, 0.22 }

Where:

\- CEIL { x, 0.22 } means rounding upwards to closest 0.22dB with 0.5 dB
granularity, i.e. CM \[0.22, 0.72, 1.22, 1.72, 2.22, 2.72, 3.22, 3.72\]

\- k is 1.66

For any DC-HSUPA signal employing 16QAM modulation on any of the
carriers and having Raw CM ≥ \[2.5\], the MPR is specified in Table
5.2BB.2.

Table 5.2BB.2: UE maximum output power for DC-HSUPA signals employing\
16QAM modulation and having RAW CM ≥ \[2.5\]

  --------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------- ----------------------
  UE transmit channel configuration                               CM (dB)                    MPR (dB)
  For all combinations of; DPCCH, HS-DPCCH, E-DPDCH and E-DPCCH   \[2.24\] ≤ CM ≤ \[5.24\]   MAX (CM-\[1.24\], 0)
  --------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------- ----------------------

Where Cubic Metric (CM) is based on the Raw Cubic Metric and is given
by:

CM = CEIL { Raw CM / k, \[0.24\] }

Where:

\- CEIL { x, 0.24 } means rounding upwards to closest 0.24dB with 0.5 dB
granularity, i.e. CM = \[2.24, 2.74, 3.24, 3.74, 4.24, 4.74, 5.24\]

\- k is \[1.23\] for DC-HSUPA signals employing 16QAM modulation and
having Raw CM ≥ \[2.5\]

It is necessary to verify this requirement only for the DC-HSUPA
configurations specified in clause C.2.8.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\], clause
6.2.2A.

### 5.2BB.3 Test purpose

To verify that the error of the UE maximum output power with DC-HSUPA
does not exceed the range prescribed by the maximum output power and
tolerance in table 5.2BB.6.

An excess maximum output power may interfere with other channels or
other systems. A small maximum output power decreases the coverage area.

### 5.2BB.4 Method of test

#### 5.2BB.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.41.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and parameters are specified in
clauses C.2.6, C.2.8 and C.11A. The DL Reference Measurement Channel
(FRC H-SET 3A, QPSK) is specified in C.8.1.1.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.14. RF
parameters are set up according to table E.5A.1A. Settings for the
serving cell are defined in table 5.2BB.5. E-DPDCH settings according to
configuration 4 in Table C.2.8.1.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping back HSDPA to E-DCH
according to procedure 7.3.14.3 in TS 34.108 \[3\] and start the
loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.2BB.3: Void

Table 5.2BB.4: Void

Table 5.2BB.5: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement\
of Maximum Output Power with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.2BB.4.1                |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

#### 5.2BB.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set the Absolute Grant according to Table C.11A.1.1.

2\) The SS starts transmitting HSDPA and the UE loops the received data
back on E-DCH.

3\) Generate suitable TPC commands to each individual carrier from the
SS to set the total power in each of the assigned carriers according to
configuration 4 in table 5.2BB.5A and the total output power of the UE
to be at least 7.5dB lower than the maximum output power. Wait 150ms.

4\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to both carriers
to the UE and wait 150ms.

5\) Measure the mean power of each carrier of the UE. The mean power
shall be averaged over at least one timeslot. The maximum output power
is the sum of the broadband transmit power of each carrier in the UE.

6\) The SS shall verify that UE is still in a DC-HSUPA call by verifying
that UE transmits signal on each carrier. If UE is not transmitting
signal on each carrier the SS shall fail the UE in this test.

7\) Repeat steps 1-6 for all the different combinations of beta values
as given in table C.11A.1.2.

8\) Repeat steps 1-7 for all the different configurations given in table
5.2BΒ.5.

Table 5.2BB.5: Settings for E-DPDCH and for uplink power control

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Config \#   | Primary     | Secondary   | Power       | Allowed MPR |
|             | carrier     | carrier     | difference  | \[dB\]      |
|             |             |             | of\         |             |
|             |             |             | total power |             |
|             |             |             | primary     |             |
|             |             |             | carrier --  |             |
|             |             |             | total power |             |
|             |             |             | secondary   |             |
|             |             |             | carrier     |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 4           | 16QAM       | 16QAM       | 0 dB ± 1.7  | \[TBD\]     |
|             |             |             | dB          |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| NOTE 1:     |             |             |             |             |
| This table  |             |             |             |             |
| represents  |             |             |             |             |
| the         |             |             |             |             |
| applicable  |             |             |             |             |
| con         |             |             |             |             |
| figurations |             |             |             |             |
| defined in  |             |             |             |             |
| table       |             |             |             |             |
| C.2.8.1.    |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
| NOTE 2: The |             |             |             |             |
| power       |             |             |             |             |
| differences |             |             |             |             |
| are used to |             |             |             |             |
| achieve the |             |             |             |             |
| power       |             |             |             |             |
| imbalances  |             |             |             |             |
| defined in  |             |             |             |             |
| table       |             |             |             |             |
| C.2.8.1.    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

### 5.2BB.5 Test requirements

The maximum output power with DC-HSUPA, derived in step 6), shall not
exceed the range prescribed by the maximum output power and tolerance in
table 5.2BB.6 or 5.2BB.7 depending on tested band.

The UL reference measurement channel for TX test will be set as defined
in C.2.6 and C.2.7 with the power ratio between HS-DPCH, DPCCH, DPDCH,
E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH being set to the values defined in table C.11A.1.2.

Table 5.2BB.6: Maximum Output Power for DC-HSUPA test

+-----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Sub-test in table C.11A.1.1 | Power Class 3 | Power Class 4 |       |           |
+-----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
|                             | Power         | Tol           | Power | Tol       |
|                             |               |               |       |           |
|                             | (dBm)         | (dB)          | (dBm) | (dB)      |
+-----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 1                           | +22.5         | +3.2/-3.7     | +19.5 | +4.2/-2.7 |
+-----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+

For the UE which supports E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation, the
lower side of the tolerance in Table 5.2BB.6 and 5.2BB.7 is allowed to
be decreased by the amount given in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS 36.101\[11\] for
those UTRA operating bands corresponding to the E-UTRA operating bands
that belong to the supported inter-band carrier aggregation
configurations. The tolerance in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS 36.101\[11\] does
not apply to supported UTRA operating bands with frequency range below 1
GHz that correspond to the E-UTRA operating bands that belong to the
supported inter-band carrier aggregation configurations when such bands
are belonging only to band combination(s) where one band is \<1GHz and
another band is \>1.7GHz and there is no harmonic relationship between
the low band UL and high band DL.

For the UE which supports DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA
configurations with uplink assigned to one UTRA band the relaxation in
Table 5.2.1a and Table 5.2.1b respectively shall be applied for
applicable bands.

In case the UE supports DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA configurations
and one or more of the E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation
configurations listed in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS36.101\[11\] with a UTRA
operating band that belongs to UTRA and E-UTRA carrier aggregation
configurations, then

\- When the UTRA operating band frequency range is ≤ 1GHz, the
applicable additional tolerance shall be the average of the applicable
tolerances, truncated to one decimal place for that operating band among
the supported DB-DC-HSDPA, dual band 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA CA
configurations, with the DB-DC-HSDPA, dual carrier 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA
CA configurations counted separately. In case there is a harmonic
relation between low band UL and high band DL, then the maximum
tolerance among the different supported carrier aggregation
configurations involving such band shall be applied

\- When the UTRA operating band frequency range is \>1GHz, the
applicable additional tolerance shall be the maximum tolerance that
applies for that operating band among the supported DB-DC-HSDPA, dual
band 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA CA configurations.

Table 5.2BB.7: Maximum Output Power for DC-HSUPA test in bands XXV and
XXVI

+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Sub-test in   | Power Class 3 | Power Class 4 |       |           |
| table         |               |               |       |           |
| C.11A.1.1     |               |               |       |           |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
|               | Power         | Tol           | Power | Tol       |
|               |               |               |       |           |
|               | (dBm)         | (dB)          | (dBm) | (dB)      |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 1             | +22.5         | +3.2/-4.7     | +19.5 | +4.2/-3.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| NOTE 1: For   |               |               |       |           |
| the UE which  |               |               |       |           |
| supports both |               |               |       |           |
| Band V and    |               |               |       |           |
| Band XXVI     |               |               |       |           |
| operating     |               |               |       |           |
| frequencies,  |               |               |       |           |
| the UE        |               |               |       |           |
| maximum       |               |               |       |           |
| output power  |               |               |       |           |
| of Band V     |               |               |       |           |
| shall apply   |               |               |       |           |
| for Band XXVI |               |               |       |           |
| when the      |               |               |       |           |
| carrier       |               |               |       |           |
| frequency of  |               |               |       |           |
| the assigned  |               |               |       |           |
| UTRA channel  |               |               |       |           |
| is within     |               |               |       |           |
| 824-845 MHz.  |               |               |       |           |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.2BC Maximum Output Power with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH for OLTD
-----------------------------------------------------------

### 5.2BC.1 Definition and applicability

The maximum output power for UL OLTD with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH and its
tolerance are defined according to the UE Maximum Power Reduction (MPR)
for the nominal maximum output power.

The maximum output power with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH is a measure of the
maximum power the UE can transmit when HS-DPCCH and E-DCH is fully or
partially transmitted during a DPCCH timeslot. The measurement period
shall be at least one timeslot.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL OLTD, HSDPA and
E-DCH.

### 5.2BC.2 Minimum Requirements

For the UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL OLTD
operation, the allowed Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for the nominal
maximum output power of each antenna is specified in Table 5.2BC.1. The
amount of applied power reduction on each antenna shall be the same.

NOTE: CM is measured at each transmit antenna connector.

Table 5.2BC.1: UE maximum output power with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------ ---------------
  UE transmit channel configuration                                                                                                                                                  CM (dB)      MPR (dB)
  For all combinations of; DPDCH, DPCCH, HS-DPCCH, E-DPDCH and E-DPCCH                                                                                                               0 ≤ CM ≤ 4   MAX (CM-1, 0)
  Note 1: CM = 1 for β~c~/β~d~ =12/15, β~hs~/β~c~=24/15. For all other combinations of DPDCH, DPCCH, HS-DPCCH, E-DPDCH and E-DPCCH the MPR is based on the relative CM difference.                
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------ ---------------

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\], clause
6.2.2B.

### 5.2BC.3 Test purpose

To verify that the error of the UE maximum output power for UL OLTD with
HS-DPCCH and E-DCH does not exceed the range prescribed by the maximum
output power and tolerance in table 5.2BC.5.

An excess maximum output power may interfere with other channels or
other systems. A small maximum output power decreases the coverage area.

### 5.2BC.4 Method of test

### 5.2BC.4.1 Initial conditions {#bc.4.1-initial-conditions .Heading4-specs}

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK) are specified in Annex C, clauses C.11.1A
and C.8.1.1.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.1.20 with the
following exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages. These
exceptions allow the beta values to be set according to table C.11.1A.4
and each UL physical channel to be at constant power during the
measurement. RF parameters are set up according to table E.5A.1.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.2BC.4A.

4\) For sub-test 1 to 4, enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping
back both the 12.2kbps RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH according to procedure
7.3.20.3 in TS 34.108 \[3\] and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.2BC.1A: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test
Loop Mode1)

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------
  Information Element                                                                      Value/Remark
  UL Transport channel information for all transport channels                              
  \- 2bit CTFC                                                                             3
  \- Power offset Information                                                              
  \- CHOICE Gain Factors                                                                   Signalled Gain Factors
  \- CHOICE mode                                                                           FDD
  \- Gain factor ßc                                                                        Value used in test: see Table C.11.1A.4
  \- Gain factor ßd                                                                        Value used in test: see Table C.11.1A.4
  CHOICE channel requirement                                                               Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm                                                               Algorithm2
  NOTE: All other 2 bit CTFC values use computed gain factors as in the default message.   
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------

Table 5.2BC.2: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA) for Sub-tests 1,2,4

  ------------------------ ------------------
  Information Element      Value/Remark
  E-DCH info               Uplink DPCH info
  \- E-DPDCH info          
  \- Reference E-TFCIs     5 E-TFCIs
  \- Reference E-TFCI      11
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   4
  \- Reference E-TFCI      67
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   18
  \- Reference E-TFCI      71
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   23
  \- Reference E-TFCI      75
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   26
  \- Reference E-TFCI      81
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   27
  ------------------------ ------------------

Table 5.2BC.3: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA) for Sub-test 3

  ------------------------ ------------------
  Information Element      Value/Remark
  E-DCH info               Uplink DPCH info
  \- E-DPDCH info          
  \- Reference E-TFCIs     2 E-TFCIs
  \- Reference E-TFCI      11
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   4
  \- Reference E-TFCI      92
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   18
  ------------------------ ------------------

Table 5.2BC.3A: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA) -condition A3 for Sub-test 5

  --------------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element               Value/Remark
  E-DCH info                        Uplink DPCH info
  \- E-DPDCH info                   
  \- E-DCH minimum set of E-TFCI    67
  \- Reference E-TFCIs              1 E-TFCI
  \- Reference E-TFCI               67
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO            18
  \- Maximum channelisation codes   Sf4
  --------------------------------- ------------------

Table 5.2BC.4: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA)

+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| Information Element             | Value/Remark                      |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| CHOICE channel requirement      | Uplink DPCH info                  |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| \- Power Control Algorithm      | For sub-test 1 to 4: Algorithm2   |
|                                 |                                   |
|                                 | For sub-test 5: Algorithm 1       |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| \- ∆ACK                         | Value used in test: see Table     |
|                                 | C.11.1A.4                         |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| \- ∆NACK                        | Value used in test: see Table     |
|                                 | C.11.1A.4                         |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| \- Ack-Nack repetition factor   | 3 (required for continuous        |
|                                 | HS-DPCCH signal)                  |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| E-DCH info                      |                                   |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| \- E-DPCCH/DPCCH power offset   | Value used in test: see Table     |
|                                 | C.11.1A.4                         |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| Downlink HS-PDSCH Information   |                                   |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| **- Measurement Feedback Info** |                                   |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| \- CQI Feedback cycle, k        | 4 ms                              |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| \- CQI repetition factor        | 2 (required for continuous        |
|                                 | HS-DPCCH signal)                  |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| \- ∆CQI                         | Value used in test: see Table     |
|                                 | C.11.1A.4                         |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

Table 5.2BC.4A: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement\
of Maximum Output Power with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.2B.4.1                 |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

### 5.2BC.4.2 Procedure

### 5.2BC.4.2.1 Procedure for sub-test 1 to 4 {#bc.4.2.1-procedure-for-sub-test-1-to-4 .Heading4-specs}

1\) Set the Absolute Grant according to Table C.11.1A.4.

2\) The SS starts transmitting HSDPA and the UE loops the received data
back on E-DCH.

3\) Set the UE power to be at least 7.5dB lower than the maximum output
power. Wait 150 ms.

4\) Send power control bits to give one TPC\_cmd = +1 command to the UE.

5\) The SS checks the received E-TFCI for 150 ms. If UE does not send
any decreased E-TFCI (DTX on E‑DPDCH is also considered decreased
E-TFCI) within the 150ms then go back to step (4) otherwise proceed to
step 6).

6\) Send power control bits to give one TPC\_cmd = -1 command to the UE
and wait 150ms.

7\) The SS checks the received E-TFCI for 150 ms. If UE sends any
decreased E-TFCI (DTX on E-DPDCH is also considered decreased E-TFCI)
within the 150ms, then send new power control bits to give another
TPC\_cmd = -1 command to the UE and wait 150ms.

8\) Confirm that the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is equal to the target
E-TFCI in Table C.11.1A.4. If the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is not
equal to the target E-TFCI, then fail the UE.

9\) Measure the mean power of the UE. The mean power shall be averaged
over at least one timeslot and measured at each transmit antenna
connector.

10\) Repeat the measurement for the different combinations of beta
values for sub-test 1 to 4 as given in table C.11.1A.4.

### 5.2BC.5 Test requirements

The maximum output power with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH, derived in step 9),
shall not exceed the range prescribed by the maximum output power and
tolerance in table 5.2BC.5 or 5.2BC.6 depending on tested band. Note:

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL CLTD, the
nominal transmit power is defined by the sum of transmit power at each
transmit antenna connector.

The UL reference measurement channel for TX test will be set as defined
in C.11.1 with the power ratio between HS-DPCH, DPCCH, DPDCH, E-DPCCH
and E-DPDCH being set to the values defined in table C.11.1A.4.

Table 5.2BC.5: Maximum Output Powers with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH for test

+-----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Sub-test in table C.11.1A.4 | Power Class 3 | Power Class 4 |       |           |
+-----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
|                             | Power         | Tol           | Power | Tol       |
|                             |               |               |       |           |
|                             | (dBm)         | (dB)          | (dBm) | (dB)      |
+-----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 1                           | +24           | +1.7/-6.7     | +21   | +2.7/-5.7 |
+-----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 2                           | +22           | +1.7/-6.7     | +19   | +2.7/-5.7 |
+-----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 3                           | +23           | +1.7/-6.7     | +20   | +2.7/-5.7 |
+-----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 4                           | +22           | +1.7/-6.7     | +19   | +2.7/-5.7 |
+-----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+

For the UE which supports E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation, the
lower side of the tolerance in Table 5.2BC.5 and 5.2BC.6 is allowed to
be decreased by the amount given in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS 36.101\[11\] for
those UTRA operating bands corresponding to the E-UTRA operating bands
that belong to the supported inter-band carrier aggregation
configurations. The tolerance in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS 36.101\[11\] does
not apply to supported UTRA operating bands with frequency range below 1
GHz that correspond to the E-UTRA operating bands that belong to the
supported inter-band carrier aggregation configurations when such bands
are belonging only to band combination(s) where one band is \<1GHz and
another band is \>1.7GHz and there is no harmonic relationship between
the low band UL and high band DL.

For the UE which supports DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA
configurations with uplink assigned to one UTRA band the relaxation in
Table 5.2.1a and Table 5.2.1b respectively shall be applied for
applicable bands.

In case the UE supports DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA configurations
and one or more of the E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation
configurations listed in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS 36.101\[11\] with a UTRA
operating band that belongs to UTRA and E-UTRA carrier aggregation
configurations, then:

\- When the UTRA operating band frequency range is ≤ 1GHz, the
applicable additional tolerance shall be the average of the applicable
tolerances, truncated to one decimal place for that operating band among
the supported DB-DC-HSDPA, dual band 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA CA
configurations, with the DB-DC-HSDPA, dual carrier 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA
CA configurations counted separately. In case there is a harmonic
relation between low band UL and high band DL, then the maximum
tolerance among the different supported carrier aggregation
configurations involving such band shall be applied

\- When the UTRA operating band frequency range is \>1GHz, the
applicable additional tolerance shall be the maximum tolerance that
applies for that operating band among the supported DB-DC-HSDPA, dual
band 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA CA configurations.

Table 5.2BC.6: Maximum Output Powers with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH for test in
bands XXV and XXVI

+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Sub-test in   | Power Class 3 | Power Class 4 |       |           |
| table         |               |               |       |           |
| C.11.1A.4     |               |               |       |           |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
|               | Power         | Tol           | Power | Tol       |
|               |               |               |       |           |
|               | (dBm)         | (dB)          | (dBm) | (dB)      |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 1             | +24           | +1.7/-7.7     | +21   | +2.7/-6.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 2             | +22           | +3.7/-6.2     | +19   | +4.7/-5.2 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 3             | +23           | +2.7/-6.2     | +20   | +3.7/-5.2 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 4             | +22           | +3.7/-6.2     | +19   | +4.7/-5.2 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| NOTE 1: For   |               |               |       |           |
| the UE which  |               |               |       |           |
| supports both |               |               |       |           |
| Band V and    |               |               |       |           |
| Band XXVI     |               |               |       |           |
| operating     |               |               |       |           |
| frequencies,  |               |               |       |           |
| the UE        |               |               |       |           |
| maximum       |               |               |       |           |
| output power  |               |               |       |           |
| of Band V     |               |               |       |           |
| shall apply   |               |               |       |           |
| for Band XXVI |               |               |       |           |
| when the      |               |               |       |           |
| carrier       |               |               |       |           |
| frequency of  |               |               |       |           |
| the assigned  |               |               |       |           |
| UTRA channel  |               |               |       |           |
| is within     |               |               |       |           |
| 824-845 MHz.  |               |               |       |           |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+

NOTE 1: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

NOTE 2: The test procedure for sub-test 1 to 4 will result in a power
slightly below the maximum, and therefore the lower limits in Table
5.2BC.5 are made lower by 1.5 dB.

NOTE 3: The test procedure allows UE to decrease its maximum transmit
power for E-TFC selection in sub-test 1, and therefore the lower limits
of sub-test 1 in Table 5.2BC.5 are made lower by 1.5 dB.

NOTE 4: For subtests 2, 3 and 4, UE may perform E-DPDCH power scaling at
max power which could results in slightly smaller MPR values.

5.2BD Maximum Output Power with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH for UL CLTD activation state 1
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Editor's note: This clause is incomplete. The following aspects are
either missing or not yet determined:

\- CM distribution for CLTD Mode 1 is incomplete.

### 5.2BD.1 Definition and applicability

The maximum output power for UL CLTD with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH and its
tolerance are defined according to the UE Maximum Power Reduction (MPR)
for the nominal maximum output power.

The maximum output power with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH is a measure of the
maximum power the UE can transmit when HS-DPCCH and E-DCH is fully or
partially transmitted during a DPCCH timeslot. The measurement period
shall be at least one timeslot.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL CLTD and E-DCH.

### 5.2BD.2 Minimum Requirements

The Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for the nominal maximum output power
is specified in table 5.2BD.1 for the values of β~c,~ β~d,~ β~hs,~
β~ec,~ β~ed~ and β~sc~ defined in \[8\] fully or partially transmitted
during a DPCCH timeslot.

Table 5.2BD.1: Maximum Output Power with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH for UL CLTD

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------ ---------------
  UE transmit channel configuration                                               CM (dB)      MPR (dB)
  For all combinations of; DPDCH, DPCCH, HS-DPCCH, E-DPDCH, E-DPCCH and S-DPCCH   0 ≤ CM ≤ 4   MAX (CM-1, 0)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------ ---------------

T Where Cubic Metric (CM) is based on the UE transmit channel
configuration and is given by

CM = CEIL { \[20 \* log10 ((v\_norm ^3^) ~rms~) - 20 \* log10
((v\_norm\_ref ^3^) ~rms~)\] / k, 0.5 }

Where:

\- CEIL { x, 0.5 } means rounding upwards to closest 0.5dB, i.e. CM =
\[0, 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.5\]

\- k is 1.85 for signals where all channelisations codes meet the
following criteria C~SF,\ N~ where N\< SF/2

\- k is 1.56 for signals were any channelisations codes meet the
following criteria C~SF,\ N~ where N ≥ SF/2

\- v\_norm is the normalized voltage waveform of the input signal

\- v\_norm\_ref is the normalized voltage waveform of the reference
signal (12.2 kbps AMR Speech) and

\- 20 \* log10 ((v\_norm\_ref ^3^) ~rms~) = 1.52 dB

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL CLTD activation
state 1, the allowed Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for the nominal
maximum output power of each antenna is specified in Table 5.2BA.1 The
amount of applied power reduction on each antenna shall be the same.

NOTE: CM is measured at each transmit antenna connector.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\], clause
6.2.2C.

### 5.2BD.3 Test purpose

To verify that the error of the UE maximum output power for UL CLTD
activation state 1 with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH does not exceed the range
prescribed by the maximum output power and tolerance in table 5.2BD.5.

An excess maximum output power may interfere with other channels or
other systems. A small maximum output power decreases the coverage area.

### 5.2BD.4 Method of test

#### 5.2BD.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK) are specified in Annex c, clauses C.11.1A
and C.8.1.1.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.19 with the
following exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages. These
exceptions allow the beta values to be set according to table C.11.1A.4
and each UL physical channel to be at constant power during the
measurement. RF parameters are set up according to table E.5A.1.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.2BD.4A.

4\) For sub-test 1 to 4, enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping
back both the 12.2kbps RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH according to procedure
7.3.19.3 in TS 34.108 \[3\] and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.2BD.1A: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test
Loop Mode1)

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------
  Information Element                                                                      Value/Remark
  UL Transport channel information for all transport channels                              
  \- 2bit CTFC                                                                             3
  \- Power offset Information                                                              
  \- CHOICE Gain Factors                                                                   Signalled Gain Factors
  \- CHOICE mode                                                                           FDD
  \- Gain factor ßc                                                                        Value used in test: see Table C.11.1A.4
  \- Gain factor ßd                                                                        Value used in test: see Table C.11.1A.4
  CHOICE channel requirement                                                               Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm                                                               Algorithm2
  NOTE: All other 2 bit CTFC values use computed gain factors as in the default message.   
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------

Table 5.2BD.2: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA) for Sub-tests 1,2,4

  ------------------------ ------------------
  Information Element      Value/Remark
  E-DCH info               Uplink DPCH info
  \- E-DPDCH info          
  \- Reference E-TFCIs     5 E-TFCIs
  \- Reference E-TFCI      11
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   4
  \- Reference E-TFCI      67
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   18
  \- Reference E-TFCI      71
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   23
  \- Reference E-TFCI      75
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   26
  \- Reference E-TFCI      81
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   27
  ------------------------ ------------------

Table 5.2BD.3: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA) for Sub-test 3

  ------------------------ ------------------
  Information Element      Value/Remark
  E-DCH info               Uplink DPCH info
  \- E-DPDCH info          
  \- Reference E-TFCIs     2 E-TFCIs
  \- Reference E-TFCI      11
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   4
  \- Reference E-TFCI      92
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   18
  ------------------------ ------------------

Table 5.2BD.3A: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA) -condition A3 for Sub-test 5

  --------------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element               Value/Remark
  E-DCH info                        Uplink DPCH info
  \- E-DPDCH info                   
  \- E-DCH minimum set of E-TFCI    67
  \- Reference E-TFCIs              1 E-TFCI
  \- Reference E-TFCI               67
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO            18
  \- Maximum channelisation codes   Sf4
  --------------------------------- ------------------

Table 5.2BD.4: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA)

+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| Information Element             | Value/Remark                      |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| CHOICE channel requirement      | Uplink DPCH info                  |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| \- Power Control Algorithm      | For sub-test 1 to 4: Algorithm2   |
|                                 |                                   |
|                                 | For sub-test 5: Algorithm 1       |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| \- ∆ACK                         | Value used in test: see Table     |
|                                 | C.11.1A.4                         |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| \- ∆NACK                        | Value used in test: see Table     |
|                                 | C.11.1A.4                         |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| \- Ack-Nack repetition factor   | 3 (required for continuous        |
|                                 | HS-DPCCH signal)                  |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| E-DCH info                      |                                   |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| \- E-DPCCH/DPCCH power offset   | Value used in test: see Table     |
|                                 | C.11.1A.4                         |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| Downlink HS-PDSCH Information   |                                   |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| **- Measurement Feedback Info** |                                   |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| \- CQI Feedback cycle, k        | 4 ms                              |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| \- CQI repetition factor        | 2 (required for continuous        |
|                                 | HS-DPCCH signal)                  |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| \- ∆CQI                         | Value used in test: see Table     |
|                                 | C.11.1A.4                         |
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

Table 5.2BDs.4A: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement\
of Maximum Output Power with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.2B.4.1                 |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

#### 5.2BD.4.2 Procedure

##### 5.2BD.4.2.1 Procedure for sub-test 1 to 4

1\) Set the Absolute Grant according to Table C.11.1A.4.

2\) The SS starts transmitting HSDPA and the UE loops the received data
back on E-DCH.

3\) Set the UE power to be at least 7.5dB lower than the maximum output
power. Wait 150 ms.

4\) Send power control bits to give one TPC\_cmd = +1 command to the UE.

5\) The SS checks the received E-TFCI for 150 ms. If UE does not send
any decreased E-TFCI (DTX on E‑DPDCH is also considered decreased
E-TFCI) within the 150ms then go back to step (4) otherwise proceed to
step 6).

6\) Send power control bits to give one TPC\_cmd = -1 command to the UE
and wait 150ms.

7\) The SS checks the received E-TFCI for 150 ms. If UE sends any
decreased E-TFCI (DTX on E-DPDCH is also considered decreased E-TFCI)
within the 150ms, then send new power control bits to give another
TPC\_cmd = -1 command to the UE and wait 150ms.

8\) Confirm that the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is equal to the target
E-TFCI in Table C.11.1A.4. If the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is not
equal to the target E-TFCI, then fail the UE.

9\) Measure the mean power of the UE. The mean power shall be averaged
over at least one timeslot and measured at each transmit antenna
connector.

10\) Repeat the measurement for the different combinations of beta
values for sub-test 1 to 4 as given in table C.11.1A.4.

### 5.2BD.5 Test requirements

The maximum output power with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH, derived in step 9),
shall not exceed the range prescribed by the maximum output power and
tolerance in table 5.2BD.5 or 5.2BD.6 depending on tested band. Note:

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL CLTD activation
state 1, the nominal transmit power is defined by the sum of transmit
power at each transmit antenna connector.

The UL reference measurement channel for TX test will be set as defined
in C.11.1 with the power ratio between HS-DPCH, DPCCH, DPDCH, E-DPCCH
and E-DPDCH being set to the values defined in table C.11.1A.4.

Table 5.2BD.5: Maximum Output Powers with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH for test

+-----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Sub-test in table C.11.1A.4 | Power Class 3 | Power Class 4 |       |           |
+-----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
|                             | Power         | Tol           | Power | Tol       |
|                             |               |               |       |           |
|                             | (dBm)         | (dB)          | (dBm) | (dB)      |
+-----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 1                           | +24           | +1.7/-6.7     | +21   | +2.7/-5.7 |
+-----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 2                           | +22           | +3.7/-5.2     | +19   | +4.7/-4.2 |
+-----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 3                           | +23           | +2.7/-5.2     | +20   | +3.7/-4.2 |
+-----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 4                           | +22           | +3.7/-5.2     | +19   | +4.7/-4.2 |
+-----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+

For the UE which supports E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation, the
lower side of the tolerance in Table 5.2BD.5 and 5.2BD.6 is allowed to
be decreased by the amount given in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS 36.101\[11\] for
those UTRA operating bands corresponding to the E-UTRA operating bands
that belong to the supported inter-band carrier aggregation
configurations. The tolerance in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS 36.101\[11\] does
not apply to supported UTRA operating bands with frequency range below 1
GHz that correspond to the E-UTRA operating bands that belong to the
supported inter-band carrier aggregation configurations when such bands
are belonging only to band combination(s) where one band is \<1GHz and
another band is \>1.7GHz and there is no harmonic relationship between
the low band UL and high band DL.

For the UE which supports DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA
configurations with uplink assigned to one UTRA band the relaxation in
Table 5.2.1a and Table 5.2.1b respectively shall be applied for
applicable bands.

In case the UE supports DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA configurations
and one or more of the E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation
configurations listed in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS36.101\[11\] with a UTRA
operating band that belongs to UTRA and E-UTRA carrier aggregation
configurations, then

\- When the UTRA operating band frequency range is ≤ 1GHz, the
applicable additional tolerance shall be the average of the applicable
tolerances, truncated to one decimal place for that operating band among
the supported DB-DC-HSDPA, dual band 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA CA
configurations, with the DB-DC-HSDPA, dual carrier 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA
CA configurations counted separately. In case there is a harmonic
relation between low band UL and high band DL, then the maximum
tolerance among the different supported carrier aggregation
configurations involving such band shall be applied

\- When the UTRA operating band frequency range is \>1GHz, the
applicable additional tolerance shall be the maximum tolerance that
applies for that operating band among the supported DB-DC-HSDPA, dual
band 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA CA configurations.

Table 5.2BD.6: Maximum Output Powers with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH for test in
bands XXV and XXVI

+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Sub-test in   | Power Class 3 | Power Class 4 |       |           |
| table         |               |               |       |           |
| C.11.1A.4     |               |               |       |           |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
|               | Power         | Tol           | Power | Tol       |
|               |               |               |       |           |
|               | (dBm)         | (dB)          | (dBm) | (dB)      |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 1             | +24           | +1.7/-7.7     | +21   | +2.7/-6.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 2             | +22           | +3.7/-6.2     | +19   | +4.7/-5.2 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 3             | +23           | +2.7/-6.2     | +20   | +3.7/-5.2 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 4             | +22           | +3.7/-6.2     | +19   | +4.7/-5.2 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| NOTE 1: For   |               |               |       |           |
| the UE which  |               |               |       |           |
| supports both |               |               |       |           |
| Band V and    |               |               |       |           |
| Band XXVI     |               |               |       |           |
| operating     |               |               |       |           |
| frequencies,  |               |               |       |           |
| the UE        |               |               |       |           |
| maximum       |               |               |       |           |
| output power  |               |               |       |           |
| of Band V     |               |               |       |           |
| shall apply   |               |               |       |           |
| for Band XXVI |               |               |       |           |
| when the      |               |               |       |           |
| carrier       |               |               |       |           |
| frequency of  |               |               |       |           |
| the assigned  |               |               |       |           |
| UTRA channel  |               |               |       |           |
| is within     |               |               |       |           |
| 824-845 MHz.  |               |               |       |           |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+

NOTE 1: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

NOTE 2: The test procedure for sub-test 1 to 4 will result in a power
slightly below the maximum, and therefore the lower limits in Table
5.2BD.5 are made lower by 1.5 dB.

NOTE 3: The test procedure allows UE to decrease its maximum transmit
power for E-TFC selection in sub-test 1, and therefore the lower limits
of sub-test 1 in Table 5.2BD.5 are made lower by 1.5 dB.

NOTE 4: For subtests 2, 3 and 4, UE may perform E-DPDCH power scaling at
max power which could results in slightly smaller MPR values.

5.2BE Maximum Output Power with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH for UL CLTD activation state 2 and 3.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.2BE.1 Definition and applicability

The maximum output power for UL CLTD with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH and its
tolerance are defined according to the UE Maximum Power Reduction (MPR)
for the nominal maximum output power.

The maximum output power with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH is a measure of the
maximum power the UE can transmit when HS-DPCCH and E-DCH is fully or
partially transmitted during a DPCCH timeslot. The measurement period
shall be at least one timeslot.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL CLTD and E-DCH.

### 5.2BE.2 Minimum Requirements

The UE Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for the nominal maximum output
power shall be within the value and tolerance specified in table 5.2BE.1
for when the values of β~c~^,^ β~d~^,^ β~hs,~ β~ec~ and β~ed~ is fully
or partially transmitted during a DPCCH timeslot.

Table 5.2BE.1: Maximum Output Power with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------------
  UE transmit channel configuration                                                                                                                                                  CM (dB)        MPR (dB)
  For all combinations of; DPDCH, DPCCH, HS‑DPCCH, E-DPDCH and E-DPCCH                                                                                                               0 ≤ CM ≤ 3.5   MAX (CM-1, 0)
  NOTE 1: CM = 1 for β~c~/β~d~ =12/15, β~hs~/β~c~=24/15. For all other combinations of DPDCH, DPCCH, HS-DPCCH, E-DPDCH and E-DPCCH the MPR is based on the relative CM difference.                  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------------

Where Cubic Metric (CM) is based on the UE transmit channel
configuration and is given by:

CM = CEIL { \[20 \* log10 ((v\_norm ^3^) ~rms~) - 20 \* log10
((v\_norm\_ref ^3^) ~rms~)\] / k, 0.5 }

Where:

\- CEIL{ x, 0.5 } means rounding upwards to closest 0.5dB, i.e. CM ∈
\[0, 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.5\]

\- k is 1.85 for signals where all channelisations codes meet the
following criteria C~SF,\ N~ where N\< SF/2

\- k is 1.56 for signals were any channelisations codes meet the
following criteria C~SF,\ N~ where N ≥ SF/2

\- v\_norm is the normalized voltage waveform of the input signal

\- v\_norm\_ref is the normalized voltage waveform of the reference
signal (12.2 kbps AMR Speech) and 20 \* log10 ((v\_norm\_ref^3^)~rms~) =
1.52 dB

For UE configured in UL CLTD activation state 2 or activation state 3,
the allowed Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for the nominal maximum output
power applies at the active transmit antenna connector.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\], clause
6.2.2C.

### 5.2BE.3 Test purpose

To verify that the error of the UE maximum output power for UL CLTD
activation state 2 and 3 with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH does not exceed the
range prescribed by the maximum output power and tolerance in table
5.2BD.5.

An excess maximum output power may interfere with other channels or
other systems. A small maximum output power decreases the coverage area.

### 5.2BE.4 Method of test

#### 5.2BE.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK) are specified in Annex C, clauses C.11.1
and C.8.1.1.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.19 with the
following exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages. These
exceptions allow the beta values to be set according to table C.11.1A.4,
each UL physical channel to be at constant power during the measurement
and allow the call to be setup with initial UL CLTD activation state as
state 2. RF parameters are set up according to table E.5A.1. Settings
for the serving cell are defined in table 5.2BE.4A.

4\) For sub-test 1 to 4, enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping
back both the 12.2kbps RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH according to procedure
7.3.19.3 in TS 34.108 \[3\] and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.2BE.1A: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test
Loop Mode1)

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------
  Information Element                                                                      Value/Remark
  UL Transport channel information for all transport channels                              
  \- 2bit CTFC                                                                             3
  \- Power offset Information                                                              
  \- CHOICE Gain Factors                                                                   Signalled Gain Factors
  \- CHOICE mode                                                                           FDD
  \- Gain factor ßc                                                                        Value used in test: see Table C.11.1A.4
  \- Gain factor ßd                                                                        Value used in test: see Table C.11.1A.4
  CHOICE channel requirement                                                               Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm                                                               Algorithm2
  NOTE: All other 2 bit CTFC values use computed gain factors as in the default message.   
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------

Table 5.2BE.2: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA) for Sub-tests 1,2,4

  ------------------------ ------------------
  Information Element      Value/Remark
  E-DCH info               Uplink DPCH info
  \- E-DPDCH info          
  \- Reference E-TFCIs     5 E-TFCIs
  \- Reference E-TFCI      11
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   4
  \- Reference E-TFCI      67
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   18
  \- Reference E-TFCI      71
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   23
  \- Reference E-TFCI      75
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   26
  \- Reference E-TFCI      81
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   27
  ------------------------ ------------------

Table 5.2BE.3: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA) for Sub-test 3

  ------------------------ ------------------
  Information Element      Value/Remark
  E-DCH info               Uplink DPCH info
  \- E-DPDCH info          
  \- Reference E-TFCIs     2 E-TFCIs
  \- Reference E-TFCI      11
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   4
  \- Reference E-TFCI      92
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   18
  ------------------------ ------------------

Table 5.2BE.3A: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA) -condition A3 for Sub-test 5

  --------------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element               Value/Remark
  E-DCH info                        Uplink DPCH info
  \- E-DPDCH info                   
  \- E-DCH minimum set of E-TFCI    67
  \- Reference E-TFCIs              1 E-TFCI
  \- Reference E-TFCI               67
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO            18
  \- Maximum channelisation codes   Sf4
  --------------------------------- ------------------

Table 5.2BE.4: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA)

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Information Element              | Value/Remark                     |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| CHOICE channel requirement       | Uplink DPCH info                 |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| \- Power Control Algorithm       | For sub-test 1 to 4: Algorithm2  |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | For sub-test 5: Algorithm 1      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| \- ∆ACK                          | Value used in test: see Table    |
|                                  | C.11.1A.4                        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| \- ∆NACK                         | Value used in test: see Table    |
|                                  | C.11.1A.4                        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| \- Ack-Nack repetition factor    | 3 (required for continuous       |
|                                  | HS-DPCCH signal)                 |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| E-DCH info                       |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| \- E-DPCCH/DPCCH power offset    | Value used in test: see Table    |
|                                  | C.11.1A.4                        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Downlink HS-PDSCH Information    |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| **- Measurement Feedback Info**  |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| \- CQI Feedback cycle, k         | 4 ms                             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| \- CQI repetition factor         | 2 (required for continuous       |
|                                  | HS-DPCCH signal)                 |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| \- ∆CQI                          | Value used in test: see Table    |
|                                  | C.11.1A.4                        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Uplink CLTD info FDD             |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| \- CHOICE Mode                   | New                              |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| \- Initial CLTD activation state | Second state                     |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

Table 5.2BE.4A: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement\
of Maximum Output Power with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.2B.4.1                 |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

#### 5.2BE.4.2 Procedure

##### 5.2BE.4.2.1 Procedure for sub-test 1 to 4

1\) Set the Absolute Grant according to Table C.11.1A.4.

2\) The SS starts transmitting HSDPA and the UE loops the received data
back on E-DCH.

3\) Set the UE power to be at least 7.5dB lower than the maximum output
power. Wait 150 ms.

4\) Send power control bits to give one TPC\_cmd = +1 command to the UE.

5\) The SS checks the received E-TFCI for 150 ms. If UE does not send
any decreased E-TFCI (DTX on E‑DPDCH is also considered decreased
E-TFCI) within the 150ms then go back to step (4) otherwise proceed to
step 6).

6\) Send power control bits to give one TPC\_cmd = -1 command to the UE
and wait 150ms.

7\) The SS checks the received E-TFCI for 150 ms. If UE sends any
decreased E-TFCI (DTX on E-DPDCH is also considered decreased E-TFCI)
within the 150ms, then send new power control bits to give another
TPC\_cmd = -1 command to the UE and wait 150ms.

8\) Confirm that the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is equal to the target
E-TFCI in Table C.11.1A.4. If the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is not
equal to the target E-TFCI, then fail the UE.

9\) Measure the mean power of the UE. The mean power shall be averaged
over at least one timeslot and is measured at the active transmit
antenna connector.

10\) Repeat the measurement for the different combinations of beta
values for sub-test 1 to 4 as given in table C.11.1A.4.

11\) SS sends a HS-SCCH order activating UL\_CLTD activation state 3.

12\) Repeat step 1 to 10 for activation state 3.

### 5.2BE.5 Test requirements

The maximum output power with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH, derived in step 9) for
activation 2 and 3, shall not exceed the range prescribed by the maximum
output power and tolerance in table 5.2BE.5 or 5.2BE.6 depending on
tested band. Note:

For UE configured in UL CLTD activation state 2 or activation state 3,
the nominal maximum output power applies at the active transmit antenna
connector.

The UL reference measurement channel for TX test will be set as defined
in C.11.1 with the power ratio between HS-DPCH, DPCCH, DPDCH, E-DPCCH
and E-DPDCH being set to the values defined in table C.11.1A.4.

Table 5.2BE.5: Maximum Output Powers with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH for test

+-----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Sub-test in table C.11.1A.4 | Power Class 3 | Power Class 4 |       |           |
+-----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
|                             | Power         | Tol           | Power | Tol       |
|                             |               |               |       |           |
|                             | (dBm)         | (dB)          | (dBm) | (dB)      |
+-----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 1                           | +24           | +1.7/-6.7     | +21   | +2.7/-5.7 |
+-----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 2                           | +22           | +3.7/-5.2     | +19   | +4.7/-4.2 |
+-----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 3                           | +23           | +2.7/-5.2     | +20   | +3.7/-4.2 |
+-----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 4                           | +22           | +3.7/-5.2     | +19   | +4.7/-4.2 |
+-----------------------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+

For the UE which supports E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation, the
lower side of the tolerance in Table 5.2BE.5 and 5.2BE.6 is allowed to
be decreased by the amount given in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS 36.101\[11\] for
those UTRA operating bands corresponding to the E-UTRA operating bands
that belong to the supported inter-band carrier aggregation
configurations. The tolerance in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS 36.101\[11\] does
not apply to supported UTRA operating bands with frequency range below 1
GHz that correspond to the E-UTRA operating bands that belong to the
supported inter-band carrier aggregation configurations when such bands
are belonging only to band combination(s) where one band is \<1GHz and
another band is \>1.7GHz and there is no harmonic relationship between
the low band UL and high band DL.

For the UE which supports DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA
configurations with uplink assigned to one UTRA band the relaxation in
Table 5.2.1a and Table 5.2.1b respectively shall be applied for
applicable bands.

In case the UE supports DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA configurations
and one or more of the E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation
configurations listed in Table 6.2.5-2 of TS36.101\[11\] with a UTRA
operating band that belongs to UTRA and E-UTRA carrier aggregation
configurations, then

\- When the UTRA operating band frequency range is ≤ 1GHz, the
applicable additional tolerance shall be the average of the applicable
tolerances, truncated to one decimal place for that operating band among
the supported DB-DC-HSDPA, dual band 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA CA
configurations, with the DB-DC-HSDPA, dual carrier 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA
CA configurations counted separately. In case there is a harmonic
relation between low band UL and high band DL, then the maximum
tolerance among the different supported carrier aggregation
configurations involving such band shall be applied

\- When the UTRA operating band frequency range is \>1GHz, the
applicable additional tolerance shall be the maximum tolerance that
applies for that operating band among the supported DB-DC-HSDPA, dual
band 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA CA configurations.

Table 5.2BE.6: Maximum Output Powers with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH for test in
bands XXV and XXVI

+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| Sub-test in   | Power Class 3 | Power Class 4 |       |           |
| table         |               |               |       |           |
| C.11.1.3      |               |               |       |           |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
|               | Power         | Tol           | Power | Tol       |
|               |               |               |       |           |
|               | (dBm)         | (dB)          | (dBm) | (dB)      |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 1             | +24           | +1.7/-7.7     | +21   | +2.7/-6.7 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 2             | +22           | +3.7/-6.2     | +19   | +4.7/-5.2 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 3             | +23           | +2.7/-6.2     | +20   | +3.7/-5.2 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| 4             | +22           | +3.7/-6.2     | +19   | +4.7/-5.2 |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+
| NOTE 1: For   |               |               |       |           |
| the UE which  |               |               |       |           |
| supports both |               |               |       |           |
| Band V and    |               |               |       |           |
| Band XXVI     |               |               |       |           |
| operating     |               |               |       |           |
| frequencies,  |               |               |       |           |
| the UE        |               |               |       |           |
| maximum       |               |               |       |           |
| output power  |               |               |       |           |
| of Band V     |               |               |       |           |
| shall apply   |               |               |       |           |
| for Band XXVI |               |               |       |           |
| when the      |               |               |       |           |
| carrier       |               |               |       |           |
| frequency of  |               |               |       |           |
| the assigned  |               |               |       |           |
| UTRA channel  |               |               |       |           |
| is within     |               |               |       |           |
| 824-845 MHz.  |               |               |       |           |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-------+-----------+

NOTE 1: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

NOTE 2: The test procedure for sub-test 1 to 4 will result in a power
slightly below the maximum, and therefore the lower limits in Table
5.2BE.5 are made lower by 1.5 dB.

NOTE 3: The test procedure allows UE to decrease its maximum transmit
power for E-TFC selection in sub-test 1, and therefore the lower limits
of sub-test 1 in Table 5.2BE.5 are made lower by 1.5 dB.

NOTE 4: For subtests 2, 3 and 4, UE may perform E-DPDCH power scaling at
max power which could results in slightly smaller MPR values.

5.2C UE relative code domain power accuracy
-------------------------------------------

### 5.2C.1 Definition and applicability

The UE Relative code domain power accuracy is a measure of the ability
of the UE to correctly set the level of individual code powers relative
to the total power of all active codes. The measure of accuracy is the
difference between two dB ratios:

UE Relative CDP accuracy = (Measured CDP ratio) - (Nominal CDP ratio)

where:

Measured CDP ratio = 10\*log((Measured code power) / (Measured total
power of all active codes))

Nominal CDP ratio = 10\*log((Nominal CDP) / (Sum of all nominal CDPs))

The nominal CDP of a code is relative to the total of all codes and is
derived from beta factors.

When the UE uses 16QAM modulation a correction factor shall be applied
to the β~ed~ value used to compute the Nominal CDP equal to
{A~1~\*(0.4472)\^2 + A~2~\*(1.3416)\^2+ A~3~\*(-0.4472)\^2 +
A~4~\*(-1.3416)\^2}^1/2^ where A~1~, A~2~, A~3~ and A~4~ are the
fractions of symbols (00, 01, 10, 11 respectively) transmitted during
the test.

The sum of all nominal CDPs will equal 1 by definition.

NOTE: The above definition of UE relative CDP accuracy is independent of
variations in the actual total power of the signal and of noise in the
signal that falls on inactive codes.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 6 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA but not E-DCH.

### 5.2C.2 Minimum Requirements

The required accuracy of the UE relative CDP is given in table 5.2C.1.
The UE relative CDP accuracy shall be maintained over the period during
which the total of all active code powers remains unchanged or one
timeslot, whichever is the longer.

Table 5.2C.1: UE Relative CDP accuracy

  -------------------- ---------------
  Nominal CDP ratio    Accuracy (dB)
  ≥ -10 dB             ±1.5
  -10 dB to ≥ -15 dB   ±2.0
  -15 dB to ≥ -20 dB   ±2.5
  -------------------- ---------------

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.2.3.

### 5.2C.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE relative code domain power accuracy meets the
requirements given in table 5.2C.4.

### 5.2C.4 Method of test

#### 5.2C.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.1.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK version) are specified in Annex C.10.1 and
C.8.1.1.

3\) An HSDPA call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.6.
RF parameters are set up according to table E.5.1 and table E.5.10.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.2C.2.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

Table 5.2C.2: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of
HS-DPCCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.2C.4.1                 |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

#### 5.2C.4.2 Procedure

1\) Send the TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to set the beta
values defined in table C.10.1.4 subtest 1 and the DPCH frame offset
according the HS-DPCCH half slot offset required for measurements. This
will create a signal with a repeat pattern of 12ms. The Uplink DPCH
Power Control Info shall specify the Power Control Algorithm as
algorithm 2 for interpreting TPC commands.

2\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS to set the output power
of the UE, when the HS-DPCCH is not transmitted, measured at the UE
antenna connector, to be in the range 0 dBm ± 2dB. This is a nominal
setting and not part of the test requirements.

3\) Send alternating \"0\" and \"1\" TPC commands in the downlink so as
to satisfy the condition of obtaining TPC\_cmd = 0.

4\) Start transmitting HSDPA Data.

5\) Figure 5.2C.1 shows the 12ms cycle created when using the TRANSPORT
CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message from Annex I with the test specific
message content defined below and with TPC\_cmd=0. Measure the relative
code domain power of each active code at the measurement points
specified in figure 5.2C.1. Each measurement is over a half slot period.
Point 1 is the half slot prior to the ACK/NACK. Point 2 is the first
half slot of the ACK/NACK, point 3 is the first half slot of the CQI and
point 4 is the first half slot after the CQI. The 25us transient periods
at the end of each half slot period shall not be included. The nominal
UE relative code domain power for each active code at each point is
defined in table 5.2C.3. The required accuracy which is the difference
between the expected and measured code domain power shall meet the test
requirements given in table 5.2C.4.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-2 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9 of TS 34.108 \[3\], except the
TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message which is defined in annex I.
The test specific content for the TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION
message is as follows:

  ------------------------------- --------------
  Information Element             Value/remark
  \- Ack-Nack repetition factor   1
  \- CQI repetition factor        1
  ------------------------------- --------------

![](media/image15.wmf){width="5.995138888888889in"
height="2.298611111111111in"}

Figure 5.2C.1: Transmit power profile showing measurement points

### 5.2C.5 Test requirements

For the expected relative code domain power ratios given in table 5.2C.3
the UE shall meet the UE relative code domain power accuracy test
requirements given in Table 5.2C.4.

Table 5.2C.3: UE relative code domain power nominal ratios

  ---------------------------- ------------------- ------------------------------------------- ------- ----------
  Sub-test in table C.10.1.4   Measurement point   Expected relative code domain power in dB           
                                                   DPCCH                                       DPDCH   HS-DPCCH
  1                            1                   -17.6                                       -0.08   OFF
                               2                   -17.9                                       -0.4    -11.8
                               3                   -17.8                                       -0.3    -13.7
                               4                   -17.6                                       -0.08   OFF
  2                            1                   -4.1                                        -2.1    OFF
                               2                   -8.2                                        -6.2    -2.1
                               3                   -7.1                                        -5.2    -3
                               4                   -4.1                                        -2.1    OFF
  3                            1                   -1.1                                        -6.5    OFF
                               2                   -7.2                                        -12.7   -1.2
                               3                   -5.8                                        -11.3   -1.8
                               4                   -1.1                                        -6.5    OFF
  4                            1                   -0.3                                        -11.8   OFF
                               2                   -7.1                                        -18.5   -1
                               3                   -5.6                                        -17.1   -1.5
                               4                   -0.3                                        -11.8   OFF
  ---------------------------- ------------------- ------------------------------------------- ------- ----------

Table 5.2C.4: UE relative code domain power accuracy test requirements

  -------------------- ---------------
  Nominal CDP ratio    Accuracy (dB)
  ≥ -10 dB             ±1.7
  -10 dB to ≥ -15 dB   ±2.3
  -15 dB to ≥ -20 dB   ±2.9
  -------------------- ---------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

**5.2CA UE relative code domain power accuracy for OLTD**
---------------------------------------------------------

### **5.2CA.1 Definition and applicability**

The UE Relative code domain power accuracy is a measure of the ability
of the UE to correctly set the level of individual code powers relative
to the total power of all active codes. The measure of accuracy is the
difference between two dB ratios:

UE Relative CDP accuracy = (Measured CDP ratio) - (Nominal CDP ratio)

where:

Measured CDP ratio = 10\*log((Measured code power) / (Measured total
power of all active codes))

Nominal CDP ratio = 10\*log((Nominal CDP) / (Sum of all nominal CDPs))

The nominal CDP of a code is relative to the total of all codes and is
derived from beta factors.

When the UE uses 16QAM modulation a correction factor shall be applied
to the β~ed~ value used to compute the Nominal CDP equal to
{A~1~\*(0.4472)\^2 + A~2~\*(1.3416)\^2+ A~3~\*(-0.4472)\^2 +
A~4~\*(-1.3416)\^2}^1/2^ where A~1~, A~2~, A~3~ and A~4~ are the
fractions of symbols (00, 01, 10, 11 respectively) transmitted during
the test.

The sum of all nominal CDPs will equal 1 by definition.

NOTE: The above definition of UE relative CDP accuracy is independent of
variations in the actual total power of the signal and of noise in the
signal that falls on inactive codes.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL OLTD and HSDPA.

### **5.2CA.2 Minimum Requirements**

The required accuracy of the UE relative CDP is given in table 5.2CB.1.
The UE relative CDP accuracy shall be maintained over the period during
which the total of all active code powers remains unchanged or one
timeslot, whichever is the longer.

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL OLTD, the
relative code domain power accuracy specified in table 5.2CA.1 applies
at each transmit antenna connector.

Table 5.2CA.1: UE Relative CDP accuracy

  -------------------- ---------------
  Nominal CDP ratio    Accuracy (dB)
  ≥ -10 dB             ±1.5
  -10 dB to ≥ -15 dB   ±2.0
  -15 dB to ≥ -20 dB   ±2.5
  -20 dB to ≥ -30 dB   ±3.0
  -------------------- ---------------

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.2.3B.

### 5.2CA.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE relative code domain power accuracy for UL OLTD
meets the requirements given in table 5.2CA.4.

### 5.2CA.4 Method of test

#### 5.2CA.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK version) are specified in Annex C,
clauses C.10.2 and C.8.1.1.

3\) An HSDPA call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] clause
7.3.18.RF parameters are set up according to table E.5.1 and table
E.5.10. Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.2CB.2.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

Table 5.2CA.2: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of
HS-DPCCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.2C.4.1                 |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

#### 5.2CA.4.2 Procedure

1\) Send the TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to set the beta
values defined in table C.10.2.4 subtest 1 and the DPCH frame offset
according the HS-DPCCH half slot offset required for measurements. This
will create a signal with a repeat pattern of 12ms. The Uplink DPCH
Power Control Info shall specify the Power Control Algorithm as
algorithm 2 for interpreting TPC commands.

2\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS to set the output power
of the UE, when the HS-DPCCH is not transmitted, measured at the UE
antenna connector, to be in the range 0 dBm ± 2dB. This is a nominal
setting and not part of the test requirements.

3\) Send alternating \"0\" and \"1\" TPC commands in the downlink so as
to satisfy the condition of obtaining TPC\_cmd = 0.

4\) Start transmitting HSDPA Data.

5\) Figure 5.2CA.1 shows the 12ms cycle created when using the TRANSPORT
CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message from Annex I with the test specific
message content defined below and with TPC\_cmd=0. Measure the relative
code domain power of each active code at the measurement points
specified in figure 5.2CA.1 at each transmit antenna connector. Each
measurement is over a half slot period. Point 1 is the half slot prior
to the ACK/NACK. Point 2 is the first half slot of the ACK/NACK, point 3
is the first half slot of the CQI and point 4 is the first half slot
after the CQI. The 25us transient periods at the end of each half slot
period shall not be included. The nominal UE relative code domain power
for each active code at each point is defined in table 5.2CA.3. The
required accuracy which is the difference between the expected and
measured code domain power shall meet the test requirements given in
table 5.2CB.4.

Specific Message Contents

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9 of TS 34.108 \[3\], except the
TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message which is defined in annex I.
The test specific content for the TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION
message is as follows:

  ------------------------------- --------------
  Information Element             Value/remark
  \- Ack-Nack repetition factor   1
  \- CQI repetition factor        1
  ------------------------------- --------------

![](media/image15.wmf){width="5.998611111111111in"
height="2.3020833333333335in"}

Figure 5.2CA.1: Transmit power profile showing measurement points

### 5.2CA.5 Test requirements

For the expected relative code domain power ratios given in table
5.2CA.3 the UE shall meet the UE relative code domain power accuracy
test requirements given in Table 5.2CA.4.

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL OLTD, the
relative code domain power accuracy applies at each transmit antenna
connector.

Table 5.2CA.3: UE relative code domain power nominal ratios

  ---------------------------- ------------------- ------------------------------------------- ------- ----------
  Sub-test in table C.10.2.4   Measurement point   Expected relative code domain power in dB           
                                                   DPCCH                                       DPDCH   HS-DPCCH
  1                            1                   -17.6                                       -0.08   OFF
                               2                   -17.9                                       -0.4    -11.8
                               3                   -17.8                                       -0.3    -13.7
                               4                   -17.6                                       -0.08   OFF
  2                            1                   -4.1                                        -2.1    OFF
                               2                   -8.2                                        -6.2    -2.1
                               3                   -7.1                                        -5.2    -3
                               4                   -4.1                                        -2.1    OFF
  3                            1                   -1.1                                        -6.5    OFF
                               2                   -7.2                                        -12.7   -1.2
                               3                   -5.8                                        -11.3   -1.8
                               4                   -1.1                                        -6.5    OFF
  4                            1                   -0.3                                        -11.8   OFF
                               2                   -7.1                                        -18.5   -1
                               3                   -5.6                                        -17.1   -1.5
                               4                   -0.3                                        -11.8   OFF
  ---------------------------- ------------------- ------------------------------------------- ------- ----------

Table 5.2CA.4: UE relative code domain power accuracy test requirements

  -------------------- ---------------
  Nominal CDP ratio    Accuracy (dB)
  ≥ -10 dB             ±1.7
  -10 dB to ≥ -15 dB   ±2.3
  -15 dB to ≥ -20 dB   ±2.9
  -20 dB to ≥ -30 dB   ±3.5
  -------------------- ---------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

**5.2CB UE relative code domain power accuracy for UL CLTD activation state 1**
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Editor's note: This clause is incomplete. The following aspects are
either missing or not yet determined:

\- CM distribution for CLTD Mode 1 is incomplete.

### **5.2CB.1 Definition and applicability**

The UE Relative code domain power accuracy is a measure of the ability
of the UE to correctly set the level of individual code powers relative
to the total power of all active codes. The measure of accuracy is the
difference between two dB ratios:

UE Relative CDP accuracy = (Measured CDP ratio) - (Nominal CDP ratio)

where:

Measured CDP ratio = 10\*log((Measured code power) / (Measured total
power of all active codes))

Nominal CDP ratio = 10\*log((Nominal CDP) / (Sum of all nominal CDPs))

The nominal CDP of a code is relative to the total of all codes and is
derived from beta factors.

When the UE uses 16QAM modulation a correction factor shall be applied
to the β~ed~ value used to compute the Nominal CDP equal to
{A~1~\*(0.4472)\^2 + A~2~\*(1.3416)\^2+ A~3~\*(-0.4472)\^2 +
A~4~\*(-1.3416)\^2}^1/2^ where A~1~, A~2~, A~3~ and A~4~ are the
fractions of symbols (00, 01, 10, 11 respectively) transmitted during
the test.

The sum of all nominal CDPs will equal 1 by definition.

NOTE: The above definition of UE relative CDP accuracy is independent of
variations in the actual total power of the signal and of noise in the
signal that falls on inactive codes.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL CLTD and HSDPA.

### **5.2CB.2 Minimum Requirements**

The required accuracy of the UE relative CDP is given in table 5.2CB.1.
The UE relative CDP accuracy shall be maintained over the period during
which the total of all active code powers remains unchanged or one
timeslot, whichever is the longer.

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL CLTD activation
state 1, the relative code domain power accuracy specified in table
5.2CB.1 applies at each transmit antenna connector.

Table 5.2CB.1: UE Relative CDP accuracy

  -------------------- ---------------
  Nominal CDP ratio    Accuracy (dB)
  ≥ -10 dB             ±1.5
  -10 dB to ≥ -15 dB   ±2.0
  -15 dB to ≥ -20 dB   ±2.5
  -------------------- ---------------

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.2.3C.

### **5.2CB.3 Test purpose**

To verify that the UE relative code domain power accuracy for UL CLTD
activation state 1 meets the requirements given in table 5.2CB.4.

### **5.2CB.4 Method of test**

#### ***5.2CB.4.1 Initial conditions***

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK version) are specified in Annex C, clauses
C.10.2 and C.8.1.1.

3\) An HSDPA call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.
17.RF parameters are set up according to table E.5.1 and table E.5.10.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.2CB.2.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

Table 5.2CB.2: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of
HS-DPCCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.2C.4.1                 |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

#### ***5.2CB.4.2 Procedure***

1\) Send the TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to set the beta
values defined in table C.10.2.4 subtest 1 and the DPCH frame offset
according the HS-DPCCH half slot offset required for measurements. This
will create a signal with a repeat pattern of 12ms. The Uplink DPCH
Power Control Info shall specify the Power Control Algorithm as
algorithm 2 for interpreting TPC commands.

2\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS to set the output power
of the UE, when the HS-DPCCH is not transmitted, measured at the UE
antenna connector, to be in the range 0 dBm ± 2dB. This is a nominal
setting and not part of the test requirements.

3\) Send alternating \"0\" and \"1\" TPC commands in the downlink so as
to satisfy the condition of obtaining TPC\_cmd = 0.

4\) Start transmitting HSDPA Data.

5\) Figure 5.2CB.1 shows the 12ms cycle created when using the TRANSPORT
CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message from Annex I with the test specific
message content defined below and with TPC\_cmd=0. Measure the relative
code domain power of each active code at the measurement points
specified in figure 5.2CB.1 at each transmit antenna connector. Each
measurement is over a half slot period. Point 1 is the half slot prior
to the ACK/NACK. Point 2 is the first half slot of the ACK/NACK, point 3
is the first half slot of the CQI and point 4 is the first half slot
after the CQI. The 25us transient periods at the end of each half slot
period shall not be included. The nominal UE relative code domain power
for each active code at each point is defined in table 5.2CB.3. The
required accuracy which is the difference between the expected and
measured code domain power shall meet the test requirements given in
table 5.2CB.4.

Specific Message Contents

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9 of TS 34.108 \[3\], except the
TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message which is defined in annex I.
The test specific content for the TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION
message is as follows:

  ------------------------------- --------------
  Information Element             Value/remark
  \- Ack-Nack repetition factor   1
  \- CQI repetition factor        1
  ------------------------------- --------------

![](media/image15.wmf){width="5.998611111111111in"
height="2.3020833333333335in"}

Figure 5.2CB.1: Transmit power profile showing measurement points

### **5.2CB.5 Test requirements**

For the expected relative code domain power ratios given in table
5.2CB.3 the UE shall meet the UE relative code domain power accuracy
test requirements given in Table 5.2CB.4.

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL CLTD activation
state 1, the relative code domain power accuracy applies at each
transmit antenna connector.

Table 5.2CB.3: UE relative code domain power nominal ratios

  ---------------------------- ------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ------- ----------
  Sub-test in table C.10.2.4   Measurement point   Expected relative code domain power in dB                     
                                                   DPCCH                                       S-DPCCH   DPDCH   HS-DPCCH
  1                            1                   \--20.6                                     -20.6     -0.08   OFF
                               2                   -20.9                                       -20.9     -0.4    -11.8
                               3                   -20.8                                       -20.8     -0.3    -13.7
                               4                   -20.6                                       -20.6     -0.08   OFF
  2                            1                   -7.1                                        -7.1      -2.1    OFF
                               2                   -11.2                                       -11.2     -6.2    -2.1
                               3                   -10.1                                       -10.1     -5.2    -3
                               4                   -7.1                                        -7.1      -2.1    OFF
  3                            1                   -4.1                                        -4.1      -6.5    OFF
                               2                   -10.2                                       -10.2     -12.7   -1.2
                               3                   -8.8                                        -8.8      -11.3   -1.8
                               4                   -4.1                                        -4.1      -6.5    OFF
  4                            1                   -3.3                                        -3.3      -11.8   OFF
                               2                   -10.1                                       -10.1     -18.5   -1
                               3                   -8.6                                        -8.6      -17.1   -1.5
                               4                   -3.3                                        -3.3      -11.8   OFF
  ---------------------------- ------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ------- ----------

Table 5.2CB.4: UE relative code domain power accuracy test requirements

  -------------------- ---------------
  Nominal CDP ratio    Accuracy (dB)
  ≥ -10 dB             ±1.7
  -10 dB to ≥ -15 dB   ±2.3
  -15 dB to ≥ -20 dB   ±2.9
  -------------------- ---------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

**5.2CC UE relative code domain power accuracy for UL CLTD activation state 2 and 3**
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### **5.2CC.1 Definition and applicability**

The UE Relative code domain power accuracy is a measure of the ability
of the UE to correctly set the level of individual code powers relative
to the total power of all active codes. The measure of accuracy is the
difference between two dB ratios:

UE Relative CDP accuracy = (Measured CDP ratio) - (Nominal CDP ratio)

where:

Measured CDP ratio = 10\*log((Measured code power) / (Measured total
power of all active codes))

Nominal CDP ratio = 10\*log((Nominal CDP) / (Sum of all nominal CDPs))

The nominal CDP of a code is relative to the total of all codes and is
derived from beta factors.

When the UE uses 16QAM modulation a correction factor shall be applied
to the β~ed~ value used to compute the Nominal CDP equal to
{A~1~\*(0.4472)\^2 + A~2~\*(1.3416)\^2+ A~3~\*(-0.4472)\^2 +
A~4~\*(-1.3416)\^2}^1/2^ where A~1~, A~2~, A~3~ and A~4~ are the
fractions of symbols (00, 01, 10, 11 respectively) transmitted during
the test.

The sum of all nominal CDPs will equal 1 by definition.

NOTE: The above definition of UE relative CDP accuracy is independent of
variations in the actual total power of the signal and of noise in the
signal that falls on inactive codes.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL CLTD and HSDPA.

### **5.2CC.2 Minimum Requirements**

The required accuracy of the UE relative CDP is given in table 5.2CC.1.
The UE relative CDP accuracy shall be maintained over the period during
which the total of all active code powers remains unchanged or one
timeslot, whichever is the longer.

For UE configured in UL CLTD activation state 2 or activation state 3,
the relative code domain power accuracy specified in table 5.2CC.1
applies at the active transmit antenna connector.

Table 5.2CC.1: UE Relative CDP accuracy

  -------------------- ---------------
  Nominal CDP ratio    Accuracy (dB)
  ≥ -10 dB             ±1.5
  -10 dB to ≥ -15 dB   ±2.0
  -15 dB to ≥ -20 dB   ±2.5
  -------------------- ---------------

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.2.3C.

### **5.2CC.3 Test purpose**

To verify that the UE relative code domain power accuracy for UL CLTD
activation state 2 and 3 meets the requirements given in table 5.2CC.4.

### **5.2CC.4 Method of test**

#### ***5.2CC.4.1 Initial conditions***

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK version) are specified in Annex C, clauses
C.10.1 and C.8.1.1.

3\) An HSDPA call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.17
with the following exception in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages in table
5.2CC.1.1. This exception allows the call to be setup with initial UL
CLTD activation state as state 2. RF parameters are set up according to
table E.5.1 and table E.5.10. Settings for the serving cell are defined
in table 5.2CC.2.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

Table 5.2CC.1.1: Contents of Radio bearer setup message

  ---------------------------------- -------------- ---------
  Information Element                Value/remark   Version
  Uplink CLTD info FDD                              Rel-11
  \- CHOICE *Mode*                   New            
  \- Initial CLTD activation state   Second state   
  ---------------------------------- -------------- ---------

Table 5.2CC.2: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of
HS-DPCCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.2C.4.1                 |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

#### ***5.2CC.4.2 Procedure***

1\) Send the TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to set the beta
values defined in table C.10.1.4 subtest 1 and the DPCH frame offset
according the HS-DPCCH half slot offset required for measurements. This
will create a signal with a repeat pattern of 12ms. The Uplink DPCH
Power Control Info shall specify the Power Control Algorithm as
algorithm 2 for interpreting TPC commands.

2\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS to set the output power
of the UE, when the HS-DPCCH is not transmitted, measured at the UE
antenna connector, to be in the range 0 dBm ± 2dB. This is a nominal
setting and not part of the test requirements.

3\) Send alternating \"0\" and \"1\" TPC commands in the downlink so as
to satisfy the condition of obtaining TPC\_cmd = 0.

4\) Start transmitting HSDPA Data.

5\) Figure 5.2CC.1 shows the 12ms cycle created when using the TRANSPORT
CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message from Annex I with the test specific
message content defined below and with TPC\_cmd=0. Measure the relative
code domain power of each active code at the measurement points
specified in figure 5.2CC.1 at the active transmit antenna connector.
Each measurement is over a half slot period. Point 1 is the half slot
prior to the ACK/NACK. Point 2 is the first half slot of the ACK/NACK,
point 3 is the first half slot of the CQI and point 4 is the first half
slot after the CQI. The 25us transient periods at the end of each half
slot period shall not be included. The nominal UE relative code domain
power for each active code at each point is defined in table 5.2CC.3.
The required accuracy which is the difference between the expected and
measured code domain power shall meet the test requirements given in
table 5.2CC.4.

6\) SS sends a HS-SCCH order activating UL\_CLTD activation state 3.

7\) Repeat step 1 to 5 for activation state 3.

Specific Message Contents

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9 of TS 34.108 \[3\], except the
TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message which is defined in annex I.
The test specific content for the TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION
message is as follows:

  ------------------------------- --------------
  Information Element             Value/remark
  \- Ack-Nack repetition factor   1
  \- CQI repetition factor        1
  ------------------------------- --------------

![](media/image15.wmf){width="5.998611111111111in"
height="2.3020833333333335in"}

Figure 5.2CC.1: Transmit power profile showing measurement points

### **5.2CC.5 Test requirements**

For the expected relative code domain power ratios given in table
5.2CC.3 the UE shall meet the UE relative code domain power accuracy
test requirements given in Table 5.2CC.4.

For UE configured in UL CLTD activation state 2 or activation state 3,
the relative code domain power accuracy applies at the active transmit
antenna connector.

Table 5.2CC.3: UE relative code domain power nominal ratios

  ---------------------------- ------------------- ------------------------------------------- ------- ----------
  Sub-test in table C.10.1.4   Measurement point   Expected relative code domain power in dB           
                                                   DPCCH                                       DPDCH   HS-DPCCH
  1                            1                   -17.6                                       -0.08   OFF
                               2                   -17.9                                       -0.4    -11.8
                               3                   -17.8                                       -0.3    -13.7
                               4                   -17.6                                       -0.08   OFF
  2                            1                   -4.1                                        -2.1    OFF
                               2                   -8.2                                        -6.2    -2.1
                               3                   -7.1                                        -5.2    -3
                               4                   -4.1                                        -2.1    OFF
  3                            1                   -1.1                                        -6.5    OFF
                               2                   -7.2                                        -12.7   -1.2
                               3                   -5.8                                        -11.3   -1.8
                               4                   -1.1                                        -6.5    OFF
  4                            1                   -0.3                                        -11.8   OFF
                               2                   -7.1                                        -18.5   -1
                               3                   -5.6                                        -17.1   -1.5
                               4                   -0.3                                        -11.8   OFF
  ---------------------------- ------------------- ------------------------------------------- ------- ----------

Table 5.2CC.4: UE relative code domain power accuracy test requirements

  -------------------- ---------------
  Nominal CDP ratio    Accuracy (dB)
  ≥ -10 dB             ±1.7
  -10 dB to ≥ -15 dB   ±2.3
  -15 dB to ≥ -20 dB   ±2.9
  -------------------- ---------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.2D UE Relative Code Domain Power Accuracy for HS-DPCCH and E-DCH
------------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.2D.1 Definition and applicability

The UE Relative code domain power accuracy is a measure of the ability
of the UE to correctly set the level of individual code powers relative
to the total power of all active codes. The measure of accuracy is the
difference between two dB ratios:

UE Relative CDP accuracy = (Measured CDP ratio) - (Nominal CDP ratio)

where

Measured CDP ratio = 10\*log((Measured code power) / (Measured total
power of all active codes))

Nominal CDP ratio = 10\*log((Nominal CDP) / (Sum of all nominal CDPs))

The nominal CDP of a code is relative to the total of all codes and is
derived from beta factors.

When the UE uses 16QAM modulation a correction factor shall be applied
to the β~ed~ value used to compute the Nominal CDP equal to
{A~1~\*(0.4472)\^2 + A~2~\*(1.3416)\^2+ A~3~\*(-0.4472)\^2 +
A~4~\*(-1.3416)\^2}^1/2^ where A~1~, A~2~, A~3~ and A~4~ are the
fractions of symbols (00, 01, 10, 11 respectively) transmitted during
the test.

The sum of all nominal CDPs will equal 1 by definition.

NOTE: The above definition of UE relative CDP accuracy is independent of
variations in the actual total power of the signal and of noise in the
signal that falls on inactive codes.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 6 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA and E-DCH.

### 5.2D.2 Minimum Requirements

The required accuracy of the UE relative CDP is given in table 5.2D.1.
The UE relative CDP accuracy shall be maintained over the period during
which the total of all active code powers remains unchanged or one
timeslot, whichever is the longer.

Table 5.2D.1: UE Relative CDP accuracy

  -------------------- ---------------
  Nominal CDP ratio    Accuracy (dB)
  ≥ -10 dB             ±1.5
  -10 dB to ≥ -15 dB   ±2.0
  -15 dB to ≥ -20 dB   ±2.5
  -------------------- ---------------

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.2.3.

### 5.2D.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE relative code domain power accuracy meets the
requirements given in table 5.2D.8.

### 5.2D.4 Method of test

#### 5.2D.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.1.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK version) are specified in Annex C.11.1 and
C.8.1.1.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.9 with the
following exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages. These
exceptions allow the beta values to be set according to table C.11.1.3
and each UL physical channel to be at constant power at the start of the
measurement. RF parameters are set up according to table E.5A.1.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.2D.6.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping back both the
12.2kbps RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH, and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.2D.2 Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop
Mode1)

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------
  Information Element                                                                     Value/Remark
  UL Transport channel information for all transport channels                             
  \- 2bit CTFC                                                                            3
  \- Power offset Information                                                             
  \- CHOICE Gain Factors                                                                  Signalled Gain Factors
  \- CHOICE mode                                                                          FDD
  \- Gain factor ßc                                                                       Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.3
  \- Gain factor ßd                                                                       Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.3
  NOTE: All other 2 bit CTFC values use computed gain factors as in the default message   
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------

Table 5.2D.3: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA) for Sub-tests 1,2,4

  ------------------------ ------------------
  Information Element      Value/Remark
  E-DCH info               Uplink DPCH info
  \- E-DPDCH info          
  \- Reference E-TFCIs     5 E-TFCIs
  \- Reference E-TFCI      11
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   4
  \- Reference E-TFCI      67
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   18
  \- Reference E-TFCI      71
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   23
  \- Reference E-TFCI      75
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   26
  \- Reference E-TFCI      81
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   27
  ------------------------ ------------------

Table 5.2D.4: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA) for Sub-test 3

  ------------------------ ------------------
  Information Element      Value/Remark
  E-DCH info               Uplink DPCH info
  \- E-DPDCH info          
  \- Reference E-TFCIs     2 E-TFCIs
  \- Reference E-TFCI      11
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   4
  \- Reference E-TFCI      92
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   18
  ------------------------ ------------------

Table 5.2D.5 Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (E-DCH and
HSDPA)

  --------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------
  Information Element               Value/Remark
  CHOICE channel requirement        Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm        Algorithm2
  \- ∆ACK                           Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.3
  \- ∆NACK                          Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.3
  \- Ack-Nack repetition factor     3 (required for continuous HS-DPCCH signal)
  E-DCH info                        
  \- E-DPCCH/DPCCH power offset     Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.3
  Downlink HS-PDSCH Information     
  **- Measurement Feedback Info**   
  \- CQI Feedback cycle, k          4 ms
  \- CQI repetition factor          2 (required for continuous HS-DPCCH signal)
  \- ∆CQI                           Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.3
  --------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------

Table 5.2D.6: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of\
UE Relative Code Domain Power Accuracy with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.2B.4.1                 |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

#### 5.2D.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set the Absolute Grant according to Table C.11.1.3.

2\) The SS starts transmitting HSDPA and the UE loops the received data
back on E-DCH.

3\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS to set the output power
of the UE to be in the range 15 dBm ± 2 dB.

4\) Confirm that the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is equal to the target
E-TFCI in Table C.11.1.3. If the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is not
equal to the target E-TFCI, then fail the UE.

5\) Send alternating \"0\" and \"1\" TPC commands in the downlink so as
to satisfy the condition of obtaining TPC\_cmd = 0.

> 6\) Send Absolute Grants in a repeating pattern starting with the
> value according to Table C.11.1.3 and alternating between this value
> and an Absolute Grant Index of Zero\_Grant. This will generate a
> repeating pattern on the E-DPDCH(s) with a level corresponding to the
> sending of Scheduling Information every other 10ms E-DCH TTI as shown
> in Figure 5.2D.1.

![](media/image16.wmf){width="2.625in" height="2.01875in"}

Figure 5.2D.1: Transmit power profile showing measurement points

7\) Measure the relative code domain power of each active code at the
measurement points specified in Figure 5.2D.1. Each measurement is made
over one timeslot. Measurement point 1 is the last timeslot before TTI1.
Measurement point 2 is the first timeslot of TTI1 and measurement point
3 is the first timeslot of TTI2. The 25 us transient periods at the ends
of each measured timeslot shall not be included. The nominal UE relative
code domain power for each active code at each point is defined in table
5.2D.7. The required accuracy which is the difference between the
expected and measured code domain power shall meet the test requirements
given in table 5.2D.8.

8\) Repeat steps 1 through 7 for the other combinations of beta values
for sub-tests 1, 2, 3, and 4 as given in Table C.11.1.3.

### 5.2D.5 Test requirements

For all UE relative code domain power nominal ratios given in table
5.2D.7 ≥ -20 dB the UE shall meet the UE relative code domain power
accuracy test requirements given in Table 5.2D.8.

Table 5.2D.7: UE relative code domain power nominal ratios

  ---------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------------------- ------- ---------- --------- ---------- ----------
  Sub-Test in Table C.11.1.3   Measure-ment Point   Expected Relative Code Domain Power in dB                                           
                                                    DPCCH                                       DPDCH   HS-DPCCH   E-DPCCH   E-DPDCH1   E-DPDCH2
  1                            1                    -9.3                                        -6.6    -3.3       -7.3      -18.9      OFF
                               2                    -18.5                                       -15.8   -12.5      -16.5     -0.5       OFF
                               3                    -9.3                                        -6.6    -3.3       -7.3      -18.9      OFF
  2                            1                    -11.9                                       -3.9    -5.8       -5.8      -21.4      OFF
                               2                    -14.0                                       -6.0    -8.0       -8.0      -4.1       OFF
                               3                    -11.9                                       -3.9    -5.8       -5.8      -21.4      OFF
  3                            1                    -9.8                                        -14.2   -3.7       -3.7      -19.3      OFF
                               2                    -14.6                                       -19.1   -8.6       -8.6      -4.7       -4.7
                               3                    -9.8                                        -14.2   -3.7       -3.7      -19.3      OFF
  4                            1                    -17.9                                       -0.4    -11.9      -17.9     -27.5      OFF
                               2                    -19.7                                       -2.2    -13.7      -19.7     -4.7       OFF
                               3                    -17.9                                       -0.4    -11.9      -17.9     -27.5      OFF
  ---------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------------------- ------- ---------- --------- ---------- ----------

Table 5.2D.8: UE relative code domain power accuracy test requirements

  -------------------- ---------------
  Nominal CDP ratio    Accuracy (dB)
  ≥ -10 dB             ±1.7
  -10 dB to ≥ -15 dB   ±2.3
  -15 dB to ≥ -20 dB   ±2.9
  -------------------- ---------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.2DA UE Relative Code Domain Power Accuracy for DC-HSUPA with QPSK
-------------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.2DA.1 Definition and applicability

The requirement and corresponding measurements apply to each individual
carrier when the total power in each of the assigned carriers is equal
to each other. Furthermore, it is necessary to verify this requirement
only for β values as specified in Table C.11A.1.1.

The UE Relative code domain power accuracy is a measure of the ability
of the UE to correctly set the level of individual code powers in a
carrier relative to the total power of all active codes in that carrier.
The measure of accuracy is the difference between two dB ratios measured
per carrier configured on the uplink:

UE Relative CDP accuracy = (Measured CDP ratio) - (Nominal CDP ratio)

where

Measured CDP ratio = 10\*log((Measured code power) / (Measured total
power of all active codes))

Nominal CDP ratio = 10\*log((Nominal CDP) / (Sum of all nominal CDPs))

The nominal CDP of a code is relative to the total of all codes in each
carrier and is derived from beta factors. The sum of all nominal CDPs
will equal 1 by definition.

NOTE: The above definition of UE relative CDP accuracy is independent of
variations in the actual total power of the signal in each carrier and
of noise in the signal that falls on inactive codes.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 9 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA and Dual Cell E-DCH.

### 5.2DA.2 Minimum Requirements

The required accuracy of the UE relative CDP is given in table 5.2DA.1.
The UE relative CDP accuracy shall be maintained over the period during
which the total of all active code powers remains unchanged or one
timeslot, whichever is the longer.

Table 5.2DA.1: UE Relative CDP accuracy

  -------------------- ---------------
  Nominal CDP ratio    Accuracy (dB)
  ≥ -10 dB             ±1.5
  -10 dB to ≥ -15 dB   ±2.0
  -15 dB to ≥ -20 dB   ±2.5
  -20 dB to ≥ -30 dB   ±3.0
  -------------------- ---------------

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.2.3A.

### 5.2DA.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE relative code domain power accuracy for DC-HSUPA
meets the requirements given in table 5.2DA.7.

### 5.2DA.4 Method of test

#### 5.2DA.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.41.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and parameters are specified in
Annex C.2.6 and C.11A. The DL Reference Measurement Channel (FRC H-SET
3A, QPSK) is specified in C.8.1.1.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.14. RF
parameters are set up according to table E. 5A.1A. Settings for the
serving cell are defined in table 5.2DA.5.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping back HSDPA to E-DCH,
and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.2DA.2: Void

Table 5.2DA.3: Void

Table 5.2DA.4: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM

  ---------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element          Value/Remark
  CHOICE channel requirement   Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm   Algorithm2
  ---------------------------- ------------------

Table 5.2DA.5: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of\
UE Relative Code Domain Power Accuracy for DC-HSUPA with QPSK

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.2BA.4.1                |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

#### 5.2DA.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set the Absolute Grant according to Table C.11A.1.3.

2\) The SS starts transmitting HSDPA and the UE loops the received data
back on E-DCH.

3\) Generate suitable TPC commands to each individual carrier from the
SS to set the total power in each of the assigned carriers to be equal
to each other within ± 1.7 dB and the total output power of the UE to be
in the range 15dBm ± 2dB.

4\) Confirm that the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is equal to the target
E-TFCI in Table C.11A.1.1. If the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is not
equal to the target E-TFCI, then fail the UE.

5\) Send alternating \"0\" and \"1\" TPC commands in the downlink so as
to satisfy the condition of obtaining TPC\_cmd = 0. This test step is
expected to keep the total power in each of the assigned carriers to be
equal to each other within ± 1.7 dB and the total output power of the UE
to be in the range 15dBm ± 2dB during the relative code domain power
measurements performed at next step.

> 6\) Measure the relative code domain power of each active code on each
> uplink frequency. Each measurement is made over one timeslot. The
> nominal UE relative code domain power for each active code is defined
> in table 5.2DA.6. The required accuracy which is the difference
> between the expected and measured code domain power shall meet the
> test requirements given in table 5.2DA.7.

### 5.2DA.5 Test requirements

For all UE relative code domain power nominal ratios given in table
5.2DA.6 the UE shall meet the UE relative code domain power accuracy
test requirements given in Table 5.2DA.7.

Table 5.2DA.6: UE relative code domain power nominal ratios

  ----------------------------- ------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- --------- --------- ------- --------- ---------
  Sub-Test in Table C.11A.1.3   Expected Relative Code Domain Power in dB                                                                      
                                Primary Uplink Frequency                    Secondary Uplink Frequency                                         
                                DPCCH                                       HS-DPCCH                     E-DPCCH   E-DPDCH   DPCCH   E-DPCCH   E-DPDCH
  1                             -5.8                                        -15.3                        -15.3     -1.7      -5.6    -15.2     -1.6
  ----------------------------- ------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- --------- --------- ------- --------- ---------

Table 5.2DA.7: UE relative code domain power accuracy test requirements

  -------------------- ---------------
  Nominal CDP ratio    Accuracy (dB)
  ≥ -10 dB             ±1.7
  -10 dB to ≥ -15 dB   ±2.3
  -15 dB to ≥ -20 dB   ±2.9
  -------------------- ---------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

**5.2DB UE Relative Code Domain Power Accuracy for HS-DPCCH and E-DCH for OLTD**
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.2DB.1 Definition and applicability

The UE Relative code domain power accuracy is a measure of the ability
of the UE to correctly set the level of individual code powers relative
to the total power of all active codes. The measure of accuracy is the
difference between two dB ratios:

UE Relative CDP accuracy = (Measured CDP ratio) - (Nominal CDP ratio)

where:

Measured CDP ratio = 10\*log((Measured code power) / (Measured total
power of all active codes))

Nominal CDP ratio = 10\*log((Nominal CDP) / (Sum of all nominal CDPs))

The nominal CDP of a code is relative to the total of all codes and is
derived from beta factors.

When the UE uses 16QAM modulation a correction factor shall be applied
to the β~ed~ value used to compute the Nominal CDP equal to
{A~1~\*(0.4472)\^2 + A~2~\*(1.3416)\^2+ A~3~\*(-0.4472)\^2 +
A~4~\*(-1.3416)\^2}^1/2^ where A~1~, A~2~, A~3~ and A~4~ are the
fractions of symbols (00, 01, 10, 11 respectively) transmitted during
the test.

The sum of all nominal CDPs will equal 1 by definition.

NOTE: The above definition of UE relative CDP accuracy is independent of
variations in the actual total power of the signal and of noise in the
signal that falls on inactive codes.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL OLTD, HSDPA and
E-DCH.

### 5.2DB.2 Minimum Requirements

The required accuracy of the UE relative CDP is given in table 5.2DB.1.
The UE relative CDP accuracy shall be maintained over the period during
which the total of all active code powers remains unchanged or one
timeslot, whichever is the longer.

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL OLTD, the
relative code domain power accuracy specified in table 5.2DB.1 applies
at each transmit antenna connector.

Table 5.2DB.1: UE Relative CDP accuracy

  -------------------- ---------------
  Nominal CDP ratio    Accuracy (dB)
  ≥ -10 dB             ±1.5
  -10 dB to ≥ -15 dB   ±2.0
  -15 dB to ≥ -20 dB   ±2.5
  -20 dB to ≥ -30 dB   ±3.0
  -------------------- ---------------

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.2.3B.

### 5.2DB.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE relative code domain power accuracy for UL OLTD
meets the requirements given in table 5.2DB.8.

### 5.2DB.4 Method of test

#### 5.2DB.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK version) are specified in Annex C,
clause C.11.1A.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\], clause 7.3.20
with the following exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages. These
exceptions allow the beta values to be set according to table C.11.1A.4
and each UL physical channel to be at constant power at the start of the
measurement. RF parameters are set up according to table E.5A.1.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.2DB.6.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping back both the
12.2kbps RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH, and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.2DB.2: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test
Loop Mode1)

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------
  Information Element                                                                     Value/Remark
  UL Transport channel information for all transport channels                             
  \- 2bit CTFC                                                                            3
  \- Power offset Information                                                             
  \- CHOICE Gain Factors                                                                  Signalled Gain Factors
  \- CHOICE mode                                                                          FDD
  \- Gain factor ßc                                                                       Value used in test: see Table C.11.1A.4
  \- Gain factor ßd                                                                       Value used in test: see Table C.11.1A.4
  NOTE: All other 2 bit CTFC values use computed gain factors as in the default message   
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------

Table 5.2DB.3: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA) for Sub-tests 1,2,4

  ------------------------ ------------------
  Information Element      Value/Remark
  E-DCH info               Uplink DPCH info
  \- E-DPDCH info          
  \- Reference E-TFCIs     5 E-TFCIs
  \- Reference E-TFCI      11
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   4
  \- Reference E-TFCI      67
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   18
  \- Reference E-TFCI      71
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   23
  \- Reference E-TFCI      75
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   26
  \- Reference E-TFCI      81
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   27
  ------------------------ ------------------

Table 5.2DB.4: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA) for Sub-test 3

  ------------------------ ------------------
  Information Element      Value/Remark
  E-DCH info               Uplink DPCH info
  \- E-DPDCH info          
  \- Reference E-TFCIs     2 E-TFCIs
  \- Reference E-TFCI      11
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   4
  \- Reference E-TFCI      92
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   18
  ------------------------ ------------------

Table 5.2DB.5: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (E-DCH
and HSDPA)

  --------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------
  Information Element               Value/Remark
  CHOICE channel requirement        Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm        Algorithm2
  \- ∆ACK                           Value used in test: see Table C.11.1A.4
  \- ∆NACK                          Value used in test: see Table C.11.1A.4
  \- Ack-Nack repetition factor     3 (required for continuous HS-DPCCH signal)
  E-DCH info                        
  \- E-DPCCH/DPCCH power offset     Value used in test: see Table C.11.1A.4
  Downlink HS-PDSCH Information     
  **- Measurement Feedback Info**   
  \- CQI Feedback cycle, k          4 ms
  \- CQI repetition factor          2 (required for continuous HS-DPCCH signal)
  \- ∆CQI                           Value used in test: see Table C.11.1A.4
  --------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------

Table 5.2DB.6: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of\
UE Relative Code Domain Power Accuracy with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.2B.4.1                 |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

#### 5.2DB.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set the Absolute Grant according to Table C.11.1A.4.

2\) The SS starts transmitting HSDPA and the UE loops the received data
back on E-DCH.

3\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS to set the output power
of the UE to be in the range 15 dBm ± 2 dB.

4\) Confirm that the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is equal to the target
E-TFCI in Table C.11.1A.4. If the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is not
equal to the target E-TFCI, then fail the UE.

5\) Send alternating \"0\" and \"1\" TPC commands in the downlink so as
to satisfy the condition of obtaining TPC\_cmd = 0.

6\) Send Absolute Grants in a repeating pattern starting with the value
according to Table C.11.1A.4 and alternating between this value and an
Absolute Grant Index of Zero\_Grant. This will generate a repeating
pattern on the E-DPDCH(s) with a level corresponding to the sending of
Scheduling Information every other 10ms E-DCH TTI as shown in Figure
5.2DB.1.

![](media/image16.wmf){width="2.6256944444444446in"
height="2.0215277777777776in"}

Figure 5.2DB.1: Transmit power profile showing measurement points

7\) Measure the relative code domain power of each active code at the
measurement points specified in Figure 5.2DB.1 at each transmit antenna
connector. Each measurement is made over one timeslot. Measurement point
1 is the last timeslot before TTI1. Measurement point 2 is the first
timeslot of TTI1 and measurement point 3 is the first timeslot of TTI2.
The 25 us transient periods at the ends of each measured timeslot shall
not be included. The nominal UE relative code domain power for each
active code at each point is defined in table 5.2DB.7. The required
accuracy which is the difference between the expected and measured code
domain power shall meet the test requirements given in table 5.2DB.8.

8\) Repeat steps 1 through 7 for the other combinations of beta values
for sub-tests 1, 2, 3, and 4 as given in Table C.11.1A.4.

### 5.2DB.5 Test requirements

For all UE relative code domain power nominal ratios given in table
5.2DB.7 ≥ -20 dB the UE shall meet the UE relative code domain power
accuracy test requirements given in Table 5.2DB.8.

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL OLTD, the
relative code domain power accuracy applies at each transmit antenna
connector.

Table 5.2DB.7: UE relative code domain power nominal ratios

  ----------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------------------- ------- ---------- --------- ---------- ----------
  Sub-Test in Table C.11.1A.4   Measure-ment Point   Expected Relative Code Domain Power in dB                                           
                                                     DPCCH                                       DPDCH   HS-DPCCH   E-DPCCH   E-DPDCH1   E-DPDCH2
  1                             1                    -9.3                                        -6.6    -3.3       -7.3      -18.9      OFF
                                2                    -18.5                                       -15.8   -12.5      -16.5     -0.5       OFF
                                3                    -9.3                                        -6.6    -3.3       -7.3      -18.9      OFF
  2                             1                    -11.9                                       -3.9    -5.8       -5.8      -21.4      OFF
                                2                    -14.0                                       -6.0    -8.0       -8.0      -4.1       OFF
                                3                    -11.9                                       -3.9    -5.8       -5.8      -21.4      OFF
  3                             1                    -9.8                                        -14.2   -3.7       -3.7      -19.3      OFF
                                2                    -14.6                                       -19.1   -8.6       -8.6      -4.7       -4.7
                                3                    -9.8                                        -14.2   -3.7       -3.7      -19.3      OFF
  4                             1                    -17.9                                       -0.4    -11.9      -17.9     -27.5      OFF
                                2                    -19.7                                       -2.2    -13.7      -19.7     -4.7       OFF
                                3                    -17.9                                       -0.4    -11.9      -17.9     -27.5      OFF
  ----------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------------------- ------- ---------- --------- ---------- ----------

Table 5.2DB.8: UE relative code domain power accuracy test requirements

  -------------------- ---------------
  Nominal CDP ratio    Accuracy (dB)
  ≥ -10 dB             ±1.7
  -10 dB to ≥ -15 dB   ±2.3
  -15 dB to ≥ -20 dB   ±2.9
  -20 dB to ≥ -30 dB   ±3.5
  -------------------- ---------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.2DC UE Relative Code Domain Power Accuracy for HS-DPCCH and E-DCH for UL CLTD activation state 1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### **5.2DC.1 Definition and applicability**

The UE Relative code domain power accuracy is a measure of the ability
of the UE to correctly set the level of individual code powers relative
to the total power of all active codes. The measure of accuracy is the
difference between two dB ratios:

UE Relative CDP accuracy = (Measured CDP ratio) - (Nominal CDP ratio)

where:

Measured CDP ratio = 10\*log((Measured code power) / (Measured total
power of all active codes))

Nominal CDP ratio = 10\*log((Nominal CDP) / (Sum of all nominal CDPs))

The nominal CDP of a code is relative to the total of all codes and is
derived from beta factors.

When the UE uses 16QAM modulation a correction factor shall be applied
to the β~ed~ value used to compute the Nominal CDP equal to
{A~1~\*(0.4472)\^2 + A~2~\*(1.3416)\^2+ A~3~\*(-0.4472)\^2 +
A~4~\*(-1.3416)\^2}^1/2^ where A~1~, A~2~, A~3~ and A~4~ are the
fractions of symbols (00, 01, 10, 11 respectively) transmitted during
the test.

The sum of all nominal CDPs will equal 1 by definition.

NOTE: The above definition of UE relative CDP accuracy is independent of
variations in the actual total power of the signal and of noise in the
signal that falls on inactive codes.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL CLTD and E-DCH.

### **5.2DC.2 Minimum Requirements**

The required accuracy of the UE relative CDP is given in table 5.2DC.1.
The UE relative CDP accuracy shall be maintained over the period during
which the total of all active code powers remains unchanged or one
timeslot, whichever is the longer.

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL CLTD activation
state 1, the relative code domain power accuracy specified in table
5.2CB.1 applies at each transmit antenna connector.

Table 5.2DC.1: UE Relative CDP accuracy

  -------------------- ---------------
  Nominal CDP ratio    Accuracy (dB)
  ≥ -10 dB             ±1.5
  -10 dB to ≥ -15 dB   ±2.0
  -15 dB to ≥ -20 dB   ±2.5
  -------------------- ---------------

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.2.3C.

### **5.2DC.3 Test purpose**

To verify that the UE relative code domain power accuracy for UL CLTD
activation state 1 meets the requirements given in table 5.2DC.8.

### **5.2DC.4 Method of test**

#### ***5.2DC.4.1 Initial conditions***

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK version) are specified in Annex C,
clause C.11.1A.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.19 with the
following exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages. These
exceptions allow the beta values to be set according to table C.11.1A.4
and each UL physical channel to be at constant power at the start of the
measurement. RF parameters are set up according to table E.5A.1.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.2DC.6.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping back both the
12.2kbps RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH, and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.2DC.2 Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test
Loop Mode1)

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------
  Information Element                                                                     Value/Remark
  UL Transport channel information for all transport channels                             
  \- 2bit CTFC                                                                            3
  \- Power offset Information                                                             
  \- CHOICE Gain Factors                                                                  Signalled Gain Factors
  \- CHOICE mode                                                                          FDD
  \- Gain factor ßc                                                                       Value used in test: see Table C.11.1A.4
  \- Gain factor ßd                                                                       Value used in test: see Table C.11.1A.4
  NOTE: All other 2 bit CTFC values use computed gain factors as in the default message   
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------

Table 5.2DC.3: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA) for Sub-tests 1,2,4

  ------------------------ ------------------
  Information Element      Value/Remark
  E-DCH info               Uplink DPCH info
  \- E-DPDCH info          
  \- Reference E-TFCIs     5 E-TFCIs
  \- Reference E-TFCI      11
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   4
  \- Reference E-TFCI      67
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   18
  \- Reference E-TFCI      71
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   23
  \- Reference E-TFCI      75
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   26
  \- Reference E-TFCI      81
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   27
  ------------------------ ------------------

Table 5.2DC.4: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA) for Sub-test 3

  ------------------------ ------------------
  Information Element      Value/Remark
  E-DCH info               Uplink DPCH info
  \- E-DPDCH info          
  \- Reference E-TFCIs     2 E-TFCIs
  \- Reference E-TFCI      11
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   4
  \- Reference E-TFCI      92
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   18
  ------------------------ ------------------

Table 5.2DC.5 Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (E-DCH
and HSDPA)

  --------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------
  Information Element               Value/Remark
  CHOICE channel requirement        Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm        Algorithm2
  \- ∆ACK                           Value used in test: see Table C.11.1A.4
  \- ∆NACK                          Value used in test: see Table C.11.1A.4
  \- Ack-Nack repetition factor     3 (required for continuous HS-DPCCH signal)
  E-DCH info                        
  \- E-DPCCH/DPCCH power offset     Value used in test: see Table C.11.1A.4
  Downlink HS-PDSCH Information     
  **- Measurement Feedback Info**   
  \- CQI Feedback cycle, k          4 ms
  \- CQI repetition factor          2 (required for continuous HS-DPCCH signal)
  \- ∆CQI                           Value used in test: see Table C.11.1A.4
  --------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------

Table 5.2DC.6: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of\
UE Relative Code Domain Power Accuracy with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.2B.4.1                 |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

#### ***5.2DC.4.2 Procedure***

1\) Set the Absolute Grant according to Table C.11.1A.4.

2\) The SS starts transmitting HSDPA and the UE loops the received data
back on E-DCH.

3\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS to set the output power
of the UE to be in the range 15 dBm ± 2 dB.

4\) Confirm that the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is equal to the target
E-TFCI in Table C.11.1A.4. If the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is not
equal to the target E-TFCI, then fail the UE.

5\) Send alternating \"0\" and \"1\" TPC commands in the downlink so as
to satisfy the condition of obtaining TPC\_cmd = 0.

6\) Send Absolute Grants in a repeating pattern starting with the value
according to Table C.11.1A.4 and alternating between this value and an
Absolute Grant Index of Zero\_Grant. This will generate a repeating
pattern on the E-DPDCH(s) with a level corresponding to the sending of
Scheduling Information every other 10ms E-DCH TTI as shown in Figure
5.2DC.1.

![](media/image16.wmf){width="2.6256944444444446in"
height="2.0215277777777776in"}

Figure 5.2DC.1: Transmit power profile showing measurement points

7\) Measure the relative code domain power of each active code at the
measurement points specified in Figure 5.2DC.1 at each transmit antenna
connector. Each measurement is made over one timeslot. Measurement point
1 is the last timeslot before TTI1. Measurement point 2 is the first
timeslot of TTI1 and measurement point 3 is the first timeslot of TTI2.
The 25 us transient periods at the ends of each measured timeslot shall
not be included. The nominal UE relative code domain power for each
active code at each point is defined in table 5.2DC.7. The required
accuracy which is the difference between the expected and measured code
domain power shall meet the test requirements given in table 5.2DC.8.

8\) Repeat steps 1 through 7 for the other combinations of beta values
for sub-tests 1, 2, 3, and 4 as given in Table C.11.1A.4.

### **5.2DC.5 Test requirements**

For all UE relative code domain power nominal ratios given in table
5.2DC.7 ≥ -20 dB the UE shall meet the UE relative code domain power
accuracy test requirements given in Table 5.2DC.8.

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL CLTD activation
state 1, the relative code domain power accuracy applies at each
transmit antenna connector.

Table 5.2DC.7: UE relative code domain power nominal ratios

  ----------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------------------- ---------- ------- ---------- --------- ---------- ----------
  Sub-Test in Table C.11.1A.4   Measure-ment Point   Expected Relative Code Domain Power in dB                                                      
                                                     DPCCH                                       S- DPCCH   DPDCH   HS-DPCCH   E-DPCCH   E-DPDCH1   E-DPDCH2
  1                             1                    -12.3                                       -12.3      -6.6    -3.3       -7.3      -18.9      OFF
                                2                    -21.5                                       -21.5      -15.8   -12.5      -16.5     -0.5       OFF
                                3                    -12.3                                       -12.3      -6.6    -3.3       -7.3      -18.9      OFF
  2                             1                    -14.9                                       -14.9      -3.9    -5.8       -5.8      -21.4      OFF
                                2                    -17                                         -17        -6.0    -8.0       -8.0      -4.1       OFF
                                3                    -14.9                                       -14.9      -3.9    -5.8       -5.8      -21.4      OFF
  3                             1                    -12.8                                       -12.8      -14.2   -3.7       -3.7      -19.3      OFF
                                2                    -17.6                                       -17.6      -19.1   -8.6       -8.6      -4.7       -4.7
                                3                    -12.8                                       -12.8      -14.2   -3.7       -3.7      -19.3      OFF
  4                             1                    -20.9                                       -20.9      -0.4    -11.9      -17.9     -27.5      OFF
                                2                    -22.7                                       -22.7      -2.2    -13.7      -19.7     -4.7       OFF
                                3                    -20.9                                       -20.9      -0.4    -11.9      -17.9     -27.5      OFF
  ----------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------------------- ---------- ------- ---------- --------- ---------- ----------

Table 5.2DC.8: UE relative code domain power accuracy test requirements

  -------------------- ---------------
  Nominal CDP ratio    Accuracy (dB)
  ≥ -10 dB             ±1.7
  -10 dB to ≥ -15 dB   ±2.3
  -15 dB to ≥ -20 dB   ±2.9
  -------------------- ---------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

**5.2DD UE Relative Code Domain Power Accuracy for HS-DPCCH and E-DCH for UL CLTD activation state 2 and 3**
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### **5.2DD.1 Definition and applicability**

The UE Relative code domain power accuracy is a measure of the ability
of the UE to correctly set the level of individual code powers relative
to the total power of all active codes. The measure of accuracy is the
difference between two dB ratios:

UE Relative CDP accuracy = (Measured CDP ratio) - (Nominal CDP ratio)

where:

Measured CDP ratio = 10\*log((Measured code power) / (Measured total
power of all active codes))

Nominal CDP ratio = 10\*log((Nominal CDP) / (Sum of all nominal CDPs))

The nominal CDP of a code is relative to the total of all codes and is
derived from beta factors.

When the UE uses 16QAM modulation a correction factor shall be applied
to the β~ed~ value used to compute the Nominal CDP equal to
{A~1~\*(0.4472)\^2 + A~2~\*(1.3416)\^2+ A~3~\*(-0.4472)\^2 +
A~4~\*(-1.3416)\^2}^1/2^ where A~1~, A~2~, A~3~ and A~4~ are the
fractions of symbols (00, 01, 10, 11 respectively) transmitted during
the test.

The sum of all nominal CDPs will equal 1 by definition.

NOTE: The above definition of UE relative CDP accuracy is independent of
variations in the actual total power of the signal and of noise in the
signal that falls on inactive codes.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL CLTD and E-DCH.

### **5.2DD.2 Minimum Requirements**

The required accuracy of the UE relative CDP is given in table 5.2DD.1.
The UE relative CDP accuracy shall be maintained over the period during
which the total of all active code powers remains unchanged or one
timeslot, whichever is the longer.

For UE configured in UL CLTD activation state 2 or activation state 3,
the relative code domain power accuracy specified in table 5.2CC.1
applies at the active transmit antenna connector.

Table 5.2D.1: UE Relative CDP accuracy

  -------------------- ---------------
  Nominal CDP ratio    Accuracy (dB)
  ≥ -10 dB             ±1.5
  -10 dB to ≥ -15 dB   ±2.0
  -15 dB to ≥ -20 dB   ±2.5
  -------------------- ---------------

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.2.3C.

### **5.2DD.3 Test purpose**

To verify that the UE relative code domain power accuracy for UL CLTD
activation state 2 and 3 meets the requirements given in table 5.2DD.8.

### **5.2DD.4 Method of test**

#### ***5.2DD.4.1 Initial conditions***

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK version) are specified in Annex C,
clause C.11.1.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.19 with the
following exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages. These
exceptions allow the beta values to be set according to table C.11.1A.4,
each UL physical channel to be at constant power at the start of the
measurement and allow the call to be setup with initial UL CLTD
activation state as state 2. RF parameters are set up according to table
E.5A.1. Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.2DD.6.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping back both the
12.2kbps RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH, and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.2DD.2 Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test
Loop Mode1)

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------
  Information Element                                                                     Value/Remark
  UL Transport channel information for all transport channels                             
  \- 2bit CTFC                                                                            3
  \- Power offset Information                                                             
  \- CHOICE Gain Factors                                                                  Signalled Gain Factors
  \- CHOICE mode                                                                          FDD
  \- Gain factor ßc                                                                       Value used in test: see Table C.11.1A.4
  \- Gain factor ßd                                                                       Value used in test: see Table C.11.1A.4
  NOTE: All other 2 bit CTFC values use computed gain factors as in the default message   
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------

Table 5.2DD.3: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA) for Sub-tests 1,2,4

  ------------------------ ------------------
  Information Element      Value/Remark
  E-DCH info               Uplink DPCH info
  \- E-DPDCH info          
  \- Reference E-TFCIs     5 E-TFCIs
  \- Reference E-TFCI      11
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   4
  \- Reference E-TFCI      67
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   18
  \- Reference E-TFCI      71
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   23
  \- Reference E-TFCI      75
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   26
  \- Reference E-TFCI      81
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   27
  ------------------------ ------------------

Table 5.2DD.4: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA) for Sub-test 3

  ------------------------ ------------------
  Information Element      Value/Remark
  E-DCH info               Uplink DPCH info
  \- E-DPDCH info          
  \- Reference E-TFCIs     2 E-TFCIs
  \- Reference E-TFCI      11
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   4
  \- Reference E-TFCI      92
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   18
  ------------------------ ------------------

Table 5.2DD.5 Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (E-DCH
and HSDPA)

  ---------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------
  Information Element                Value/Remark
  CHOICE channel requirement         Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm         Algorithm2
  \- ∆ACK                            Value used in test: see Table C.11.1A.4
  \- ∆NACK                           Value used in test: see Table C.11.1A.4
  \- Ack-Nack repetition factor      3 (required for continuous HS-DPCCH signal)
  E-DCH info                         
  \- E-DPCCH/DPCCH power offset      Value used in test: see Table C.11.1A.4
  Downlink HS-PDSCH Information      
  **- Measurement Feedback Info**    
  \- CQI Feedback cycle, k           4 ms
  \- CQI repetition factor           2 (required for continuous HS-DPCCH signal)
  \- ∆CQI                            Value used in test: see Table C.11.1A.4
  Uplink CLTD info FDD               
  \- CHOICE Mode                     New
  \- Initial CLTD activation state   Second state
  ---------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------

Table 5.2DD.6: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of\
UE Relative Code Domain Power Accuracy with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.2B.4.1                 |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

#### ***5.2DD.4.2 Procedure***

1\) Set the Absolute Grant according to Table C.11.1A.4.

2\) The SS starts transmitting HSDPA and the UE loops the received data
back on E-DCH.

3\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS to set the output power
of the UE to be in the range 15 dBm ± 2 dB.

4\) Confirm that the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is equal to the target
E-TFCI in Table C.11.1A.4. If the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is not
equal to the target E-TFCI, then fail the UE.

5\) Send alternating \"0\" and \"1\" TPC commands in the downlink so as
to satisfy the condition of obtaining TPC\_cmd = 0.

6\) Send Absolute Grants in a repeating pattern starting with the value
according to Table C.11.1A.4 and alternating between this value and an
Absolute Grant Index of Zero\_Grant. This will generate a repeating
pattern on the E-DPDCH(s) with a level corresponding to the sending of
Scheduling Information every other 10ms E-DCH TTI as shown in Figure
5.2DD.1.

![](media/image16.wmf){width="2.6256944444444446in"
height="2.0215277777777776in"}

Figure 5.2DD.1: Transmit power profile showing measurement points

7\) Measure the relative code domain power of each active code at the
measurement points specified in Figure 5.2DD.1 at the active transmit
antenna connector. Each measurement is made over one timeslot.
Measurement point 1 is the last timeslot before TTI1. Measurement point
2 is the first timeslot of TTI1 and measurement point 3 is the first
timeslot of TTI2. The 25 us transient periods at the ends of each
measured timeslot shall not be included. The nominal UE relative code
domain power for each active code at each point is defined in table
5.2DD.7. The required accuracy which is the difference between the
expected and measured code domain power shall meet the test requirements
given in table 5.2DD.8.

8\) Repeat steps 1 through 7 for the other combinations of beta values
for sub-tests 1, 2, 3, and 4 as given in Table C.11.1A.4.

9\) SS sends a HS-SCCH order activating UL\_CLTD activation state 3

10\) Repeat step 1 to 8 for activation state 3.

### **5.2DD.5 Test requirements**

For all UE relative code domain power nominal ratios given in table
5.2DD.7 ≥ -20 dB the UE shall meet the UE relative code domain power
accuracy test requirements given in Table 5.2DD.8.

For UE configured in UL CLTD activation state 2 or activation state 3,
the relative code domain power accuracy applies at the active transmit
antenna connector.

Table 5.2DD.7: UE relative code domain power nominal ratios

  ----------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------------------- ------- ---------- --------- ---------- ----------
  Sub-Test in Table C.11.1A.4   Measure-ment Point   Expected Relative Code Domain Power in dB                                           
                                                     DPCCH                                       DPDCH   HS-DPCCH   E-DPCCH   E-DPDCH1   E-DPDCH2
  1                             1                    -9.3                                        -6.6    -3.3       -7.3      -18.9      OFF
                                2                    -18.5                                       -15.8   -12.5      -16.5     -0.5       OFF
                                3                    -9.3                                        -6.6    -3.3       -7.3      -18.9      OFF
  2                             1                    -11.9                                       -3.9    -5.8       -5.8      -21.4      OFF
                                2                    -14.0                                       -6.0    -8.0       -8.0      -4.1       OFF
                                3                    -11.9                                       -3.9    -5.8       -5.8      -21.4      OFF
  3                             1                    -9.8                                        -14.2   -3.7       -3.7      -19.3      OFF
                                2                    -14.6                                       -19.1   -8.6       -8.6      -4.7       -4.7
                                3                    -9.8                                        -14.2   -3.7       -3.7      -19.3      OFF
  4                             1                    -17.9                                       -0.4    -11.9      -17.9     -27.5      OFF
                                2                    -19.7                                       -2.2    -13.7      -19.7     -4.7       OFF
                                3                    -17.9                                       -0.4    -11.9      -17.9     -27.5      OFF
  ----------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------------------- ------- ---------- --------- ---------- ----------

Table 5.2DD.8: UE relative code domain power accuracy test requirements

  -------------------- ---------------
  Nominal CDP ratio    Accuracy (dB)
  ≥ -10 dB             ±1.7
  -10 dB to ≥ -15 dB   ±2.3
  -15 dB to ≥ -20 dB   ±2.9
  -------------------- ---------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.2E UE Relative Code Domain Power Accuracy for HS-DPCCH and E-DCH with 16QAM
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.2E.1 Definition and applicability

The UE Relative code domain power accuracy is a measure of the ability
of the UE to correctly set the level of individual code powers relative
to the total power of all active codes. When the UE uses 16QAM
modulation on any of the uplink code channels the IQ origin offset power
shall be removed from the Measured CDP ratio; however, the removed
relative IQ origin offset power (relative carrier leakage power) also
has to satisfy the applicable requirement. The measure of accuracy is
the difference between two dB ratios:

UE Relative CDP accuracy = (Measured CDP ratio) - (Nominal CDP ratio)

where

Measured CDP ratio = 10\*log((Measured code power) / (Measured total
power of all active codes))

Nominal CDP ratio = 10\*log((Nominal CDP) / (Sum of all nominal CDPs))

The nominal CDP of a code is relative to the total of all codes and is
derived from beta factors.

When the UE uses 16QAM modulation a correction factor shall be applied
to the β~ed~ value used to compute the Nominal CDP equal to
{A~1~\*(0.4472)\^2 + A~2~\*(1.3416)\^2+ A~3~\*(-0.4472)\^2 +
A~4~\*(-1.3416)\^2}^1/2^ where A~1~, A~2~, A~3~ and A~4~ are the
fractions of symbols (00, 01, 10, 11 respectively) transmitted during
the test.

The sum of all nominal CDPs will equal 1 by definition.

NOTE: The above definition of UE relative CDP accuracy is independent of
variations in the actual total power of the signal and of noise in the
signal that falls on inactive codes.

The requirements apply for Release 7 and later releases for all types of
UTRA for the FDD UE that support E-DCH 16QAM UE capability category 7.
This test applies only to UE that support HSDPA and E-DCH.

### 5.2E.2 Minimum Requirements

The required accuracy of the UE relative CDP is given in table 5.2E.1.
The UE relative CDP accuracy shall be maintained over the period during
which the total of all active code powers remains unchanged or one
timeslot, whichever is the longer.

Table 5.2E.1: UE Relative CDP accuracy, HS-DPCCH and E-DCH with 16QAM

  -------------------- ---------------
  Nominal CDP ratio    Accuracy (dB)
  ≥ -10 dB             ±1.5
  -10 dB to ≥ -15 dB   ±2.0
  -15 dB to ≥ -20 dB   ±2.5
  -20 dB to ≥ -30 dB   ±3.0
  -------------------- ---------------

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.2.3.

### 5.2E.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE relative code domain power accuracy meets the
requirements given in table 5.2E.6.

### 5.2E.4 Method of test

#### 5.2E.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.1.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the DL Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1,16QAM) are specified in Annex C.11.1 and C.8.1.1.
The payload of the transport block for the DL Fixed Reference Channels
shall be PRBS data.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.9 with the
following exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages. These
exceptions allow the beta values to be set according to table C.11.1.4
and each UL physical channel to be at constant power at the start of the
measurement. RF parameters are set up according to table E.5A.1.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.2E.4. Uplink SRB
for DCCH mapped on E-DCH and downlink SRB for DCCH on DCH. E-DCH is
configured with 2ms TTI.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping back HSDPA to E-DCH,
and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.2E.2: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA) for Sub-test 1

  -------------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element              Value/Remark
  E-DCH info                       Uplink DPCH info
  \- E-DPCCH info                  
  \- E-DPDCH power interpolation   FALSE
  \- E-DPDCH info                  
  \- E-TFCI Table Index            2
  \- Reference E-TFCIs             3 E-TFCIs
  \- Reference E-TFCI              105
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO           12
  \- Reference E-TFCI              116
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO           14
  \- Reference E-TFCI              127
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO           16
  \- Max Channelisation Codes      SF4x2 and SF2x2
  -------------------------------- ------------------

Table 5.2E.3: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (E-DCH
and HSDPA)

  --------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------
  Information Element                     Value/Remark
  CHOICE channel requirement              Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm              Algorithm2
  \- ∆ACK                                 Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.4
  \- ∆NACK                                Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.4
  \- Ack-Nack repetition factor           3 (required for continuous HS-DPCCH signal)
  E-DCH info                              
  \- E-DPCCH info                         
  \- E-DPCCH/DPCCH power offset           Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.4
  \- E-TFC Boost Info                     
  \- E-TFCI boost                         Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.4
  \- Delta T2TP                           12 dB
  \- UL 16QAM settings                    
  \- BetaEd gain E-AGCH table selection   0
  Downlink HS-PDSCH Information           
  **- Measurement Feedback Info**         
  \- CQI Feedback cycle, k                4 ms
  \- CQI repetition factor                2 (required for continuous HS-DPCCH signal)
  \- ∆CQI                                 Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.4
  --------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------

Table 5.2E.4: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of UE
Relative Code Domain Power Accuracy with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.2E.4.1                 |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

#### 5.2E.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set the Absolute Grant according to Table C.11.1.4.

2\) The SS starts transmitting HSDPA and the UE loops the received data
back on E-DCH.

3\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS to set the output power
of the UE to be in the range 15 dBm ± 2 dB.

4\) Confirm that the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is equal to the target
E-TFCI in Table C.11.1.4. If the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is not
equal to the target E-TFCI, then fail the UE.

5\) Send alternating \"0\" and \"1\" TPC commands in the downlink so as
to satisfy the condition of obtaining TPC\_cmd = 0.

> 6\) Send Absolute Grants in a repeating pattern starting with the
> value according to Table C.11.1.4 and alternating between this value
> and an Absolute Grant Index of Zero\_Grant. This will generate a
> repeating pattern on the E-DPDCH(s) with a level corresponding to the
> sending of Scheduling Information every other 2ms E-DCH TTI as shown
> in Figure 5.2E.1.

Figure 5.2E.1: Transmit power profile showing measurement points

7\) Measure the relative code domain power of each active code at the
measurement points specified in Figure 5.2E.1. Each measurement is made
over one timeslot. Measurement point 1 is the last timeslot before TTI1.
Measurement point 2 is the first timeslot of TTI1 and measurement point
3 is the first timeslot of TTI2. The 25 us transient periods at the ends
of each measured timeslot shall not be included. The nominal UE relative
code domain power for each active code at each point is defined in table
5.2E.5. The required accuracy which is the difference between the
expected and measured code domain power shall meet the test requirements
given in table 5.2E.6.

### 5.2E.5 Test requirements

For all UE relative code domain power nominal ratios given in table
5.2E.5 ≥ -30 dB the UE shall meet the UE relative code domain power
accuracy test requirements given in Table 5.2E.6.

Table 5.2E.5: UE relative code domain power nominal ratios

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Sub   | Meas  | Exp   |       |       |       |       |       |
| -Test | Point | ected |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       | Rel   |       |       |       |       |       |
| Table |       | ative |       |       |       |       |       |
| C.1   |       | Code  |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1.1.4 |       | D     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | omain |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | Power |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | in dB |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       | DPCCH | HS-   | E-    | E-    | E-    | E-    |
|       |       |       | DPCCH | DPCCH | DPDCH | DPDCH | DPDCH |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1     | 2     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 3,4   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | 1     | -9.6  | -3.6  | -3.6  | -19.1 | OFF   | OFF   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | 2     | -13.4 | -7.4  | -7.4  | -7.4  | -7.4  | -9.4  |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | 3     | -9.6  | -3.6  | -3.6  | -19.1 | OFF   | OFF   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

Table 5.2E.6: UE relative code domain power accuracy test requirements,\
HSDPA and E-DCH with 16QAM

  -------------------- ---------------
  Nominal CDP ratio    Accuracy (dB)
  ≥ -10 dB             ±1.7
  -10 dB to ≥ -15 dB   ±2.3
  -15 dB to ≥ -20 dB   ±2.9
  -20 dB to ≥ -30 dB   \[±3.5\]
  -------------------- ---------------

NOTE 1: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

NOTE 2: For the measurement points in which UE uses 16QAM modulation the
correction factor in the measurements shall be applied to the β~ed~
value used to compute the Nominal CDP equal to {A~1~\*(0.4472)\^2 +
A~2~\*(1.3416)\^2+ A~3~\*(-0.4472)\^2 + A~4~\*(-1.3416)\^2}^1/2^ where
A~1~, A~2~, A~3~ and A~4~ are the fractions of symbols (00, 01, 10, 11
respectively) transmitted during the test.

5.2EA UE Relative Code Domain Power Accuracy for DC-HSUPA with 16QAM
--------------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.2EA.1 Definition and applicability

The requirement and corresponding measurements apply to each individual
carrier when the total power in each of the assigned carriers is equal
to each other.

The UE Relative code domain power accuracy is a measure of the ability
of the UE to correctly set the level of individual code powers in a
carrier relative to the total power of all active codes in that carrier.
When the UE uses 16QAM modulation on any of the uplink code channels in
a carrier the IQ origin offset power measured in that carrier shall be
removed from the Measured CDP ratio in that carrier; however, the
removed relative IQ origin offset power (relative carrier leakage power)
measured in that carrier also has to satisfy the applicable requirement
in that carrier. The measure of accuracy is the difference between two
dB ratios measured per carrier configured on the uplink:

UE Relative CDP accuracy = (Measured CDP ratio) - (Nominal CDP ratio)

where

Measured CDP ratio = 10\*log((Measured code power) / (Measured total
power of all active codes))

Nominal CDP ratio = 10\*log((Nominal CDP) / (Sum of all nominal CDPs))

The nominal CDP of a code is relative to the total of all codes in each
carrier and is derived from beta factors. The sum of all nominal CDPs
will equal 1 by definition.

NOTE: The above definition of UE relative CDP accuracy is independent of
variations in the actual total power of the signal in each carrier and
of noise in the signal that falls on inactive codes.

The reference measurement channels for the requirements in this
subclause are provided in subclause C.2.7 with additional parameters as
specified in Table C.11A.1.2.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 9 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support Dual Cell E-DCH 16QAM UE
capability category 9.

### 5.2EA.2 Minimum Requirements

The required accuracy of the UE relative CDP is given in table 5.2EA.1.
The UE relative CDP accuracy shall be maintained over the period during
which the total of all active code powers remains unchanged or one
timeslot, whichever is the longer.

Table 5.2EA.1: UE Relative CDP accuracy, HS-DPCCH and E-DCH with 16QAM

  -------------------- ---------------
  Nominal CDP ratio    Accuracy (dB)
  ≥ -10 dB             ±1.5
  -10 dB to ≥ -15 dB   ±2.0
  -15 dB to ≥ -20 dB   ±2.5
  -20 dB to ≥ -30 dB   ±3.0
  -------------------- ---------------

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.2.3A.

### 5.2EA.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE relative code domain power accuracy meets the
requirements given in table 5.2EA.4.

### 5.2EA.4 Method of test

#### 5.2EA.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.41.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and parameters are specified in
Annex C.2.7 and C.11A. The DL Reference Measurement Channel (FRC H-SET
3A, QPSK) is specified in C.8.1.1.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.14 with the
exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP message as specified in Table
5.2EA.2. RF parameters are set up according to table E.5A.1A. Settings
for the serving cell are defined in table 5.2EA.3.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping back HSDPA to E-DCH,
and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.2EA.2: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM
(DC-HSUPA)

  ---------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element          Value/Remark
  CHOICE channel requirement   Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm   Algorithm2
  ---------------------------- ------------------

Table 5.2EA.3: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of\
UE Relative Code Domain Power Accuracy for DC-HSUPA with 16QAM

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.2BA.4.1                |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

#### 5.2EA.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set the Absolute Grant according to Table C.11A.1.2.

2\) The SS starts transmitting HSDPA and the UE loops the received data
back on E-DCH.

3\) Generate suitable TPC commands to each individual carrier from the
SS to set the total power in each of the assigned carriers to be equal
to each other within ± 1.7 dB and the total output power of the UE to be
in the range 15dBm ± 2dB.

4\) Confirm that the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is equal to the target
E-TFCI in Table C.11A.1.2. If the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is not
equal to the target E-TFCI, then fail the UE.

5\) Send alternating \"0\" and \"1\" TPC commands in the downlink so as
to satisfy the condition of obtaining TPC\_cmd = 0. This test step is
expected to keep the total power in each of the assigned carriers to be
equal to each other within ± 1.7 dB and the total output power of the UE
to be in the range 15dBm ± 2dB during the relative code domain power
measurements performed at next step.

> 6\) Measure the relative code domain power of each active code on each
> uplink frequency. Each measurement is made over one timeslot.

### 5.2EA.5 Test requirements

For all UE relative code domain power nominal ratios given in table
5.2EA.4 the UE shall meet the UE relative code domain power accuracy
test requirements given in Table 5.2EA.5.

Table 5.2EA.4: UE relative code domain power nominal ratios

  ------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- --------- ------------------------------- ------------------------------- ------- --------- ------------------------------- -------------------------------
  Expected Relative Code Domain Power in dB                                                                                                                                                            
  Primary Uplink Frequency                    Secondary Uplink Frequency                                                                                                                               
  DPCCH                                       HS-DPCCH                     E-DPCCH   E-DPDCH codes 1 and 2 (2xSF2)   E-DPDCH codes 3 and 4 (2xSF4)   DPCCH   E-DPCCH   E-DPDCH codes 1 and 2 (2xSF2)   E-DPDCH codes 3 and 4 (2xSF4)
  -24.0                                       -21.9                        -15.9     -4.9                            -7.9                            -23.9   -15.9     -4.9                            -7.9
  ------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- --------- ------------------------------- ------------------------------- ------- --------- ------------------------------- -------------------------------

Table 5.2EA.5: UE relative code domain power accuracy test
requirements,\
HSDPA and E-DCH with 16QAM

  -------------------- ---------------
  Nominal CDP ratio    Accuracy (dB)
  ≥ -10 dB             ±1.7
  -10 dB to ≥ -15 dB   ±2.3
  -15 dB to ≥ -20 dB   ±2.9
  -20 dB to ≥ -30 dB   ±3.5
  -------------------- ---------------

NOTE 1: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

NOTE 2: For the measurement points in which UE uses 16QAM modulation the
correction factor in the measurements shall be applied to the β~ed~
value used to compute the Nominal CDP equal to {A~1~\*(0.4472)\^2 +
A~2~\*(1.3416)\^2+ A~3~\*(-0.4472)\^2 + A~4~\*(-1.3416)\^2}^1/2^ where
A~1~, A~2~, A~3~ and A~4~ are the fractions of symbols (00, 01, 10, 11
respectively) transmitted during the test.

5.2EB UE Relative Code Domain Power Accuracy for HS-DPCCH and E-DCH with 16QAM for OLTD
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.2EB.1 Definition and applicability

The UE Relative code domain power accuracy is a measure of the ability
of the UE to correctly set the level of individual code powers relative
to the total power of all active codes. When the UE uses 16QAM
modulation on any of the uplink code channels the IQ origin offset power
shall be removed from the Measured CDP ratio; however, the removed
relative IQ origin offset power (relative carrier leakage power) also
has to satisfy the applicable requirement. The measure of accuracy is
the difference between two dB ratios:

UE Relative CDP accuracy = (Measured CDP ratio) - (Nominal CDP ratio)

where

Measured CDP ratio = 10\*log((Measured code power) / (Measured total
power of all active codes))

Nominal CDP ratio = 10\*log((Nominal CDP) / (Sum of all nominal CDPs))

The nominal CDP of a code is relative to the total of all codes and is
derived from beta factors.

When the UE uses 16QAM modulation a correction factor shall be applied
to the ~ed~ value used to compute the Nominal CDP equal to
{A~1~\*(0.4472)\^2 + A~2~\*(1.3416)\^2+ A~3~\*(-0.4472)\^2 +
A~4~\*(-1.3416)\^2}^1/2^ where A~1~, A~2~, A~3~ and A~4~ are the
fractions of symbols (00, 01, 10, 11 respectively) transmitted during
the test.

The sum of all nominal CDPs will equal 1 by definition.

NOTE: The above definition of UE relative CDP accuracy is independent of
variations in the actual total power of the signal and of noise in the
signal that falls on inactive codes.

The requirements apply for Release 11 and later releases for all types
of UTRA for the FDD UE that support E-DCH 16QAM UE capability category 7
and UL OLTD.

### 5.2EB.2 Minimum Requirements

The required accuracy of the UE relative CDP is given in table 5.2EB.1.
The UE relative CDP accuracy shall be maintained over the period during
which the total of all active code powers remains unchanged or one
timeslot, whichever is the longer.

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL OLTD activation
state 1, the relative code domain power accuracy specified in table
5.2CB.1 applies at each transmit antenna connector.

Table 5.2EB.1: UE Relative CDP accuracy, HS-DPCCH and E-DCH with 16QAM

  -------------------- ---------------
  Nominal CDP ratio    Accuracy (dB)
  ≥ -10 dB             ±1.5
  -10 dB to ≥ -15 dB   ±2.0
  -15 dB to ≥ -20 dB   ±2.5
  -20 dB to ≥ -30 dB   ±3.0
  -------------------- ---------------

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.2.3B.

### 5.2EB.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE relative code domain power accuracy for UL OLTD
activation state 1 meets the requirements given in table 5.2EB.6.

### 5.2EB.4 Method of test

#### 5.2EB.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the DL Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1,16QAM) are specified in Annex C, clauses C.11.1A
and C.8.1.1. The payload of the transport block for the DL Fixed
Reference Channels shall be PRBS data.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.20 with the
following exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages. These
exceptions allow the beta values to be set according to table C.11.1A.5
and each UL physical channel to be at constant power at the start of the
measurement. RF parameters are set up according to E.5A.1. Settings for
the serving cell are defined in table 5.2E.4. Uplink SRB for DCCH mapped
on E-DCH and downlink SRB for DCCH on DCH. E-DCH is configured with 2ms
TTI.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping back HSDPA to E-DCH,
and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.2EB.2: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA) for Sub-test 1

  -------------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element              Value/Remark
  E-DCH info                       Uplink DPCH info
  \- E-DPCCH info                  
  \- E-DPDCH power interpolation   FALSE
  \- E-DPDCH info                  
  \- E-TFCI Table Index            2
  \- Reference E-TFCIs             3 E-TFCIs
  \- Reference E-TFCI              105
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO           12
  \- Reference E-TFCI              116
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO           14
  \- Reference E-TFCI              127
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO           16
  \- Max Channelisation Codes      SF4x2 and SF2x2
  -------------------------------- ------------------

Table 5.2EB.3: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (E-DCH
and HSDPA)

  --------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------
  Information Element                     Value/Remark
  CHOICE channel requirement              Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm              Algorithm2
  \- ∆ACK                                 Value used in test: see Table C.11.2.5
  \- ∆NACK                                Value used in test: see Table C.11.2.5
  \- Ack-Nack repetition factor           3 (required for continuous HS-DPCCH signal)
  E-DCH info                              
  \- E-DPCCH info                         
  \- E-DPCCH/DPCCH power offset           Value used in test: see Table C.11.2.5
  \- E-TFC Boost Info                     
  \- E-TFCI boost                         Value used in test: see Table C.11.2.5
  \- Delta T2TP                           12 dB
  \- UL 16QAM settings                    
  \- BetaEd gain E-AGCH table selection   0
  Downlink HS-PDSCH Information           
  **- Measurement Feedback Info**         
  \- CQI Feedback cycle, k                4 ms
  \- CQI repetition factor                2 (required for continuous HS-DPCCH signal)
  \- ∆CQI                                 Value used in test: see Table C.11.2.5
  --------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------

Table 5.2EB.4: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of
UE Relative Code Domain Power Accuracy with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.2E.4.1                 |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

#### 5.2EB.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set the Absolute Grant according to Table C.11.2.5.

2\) The SS starts transmitting HSDPA and the UE loops the received data
back on E-DCH.

3\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS to set the output power
of the UE to be in the range 15 dBm ± 2 dB.

4\) Confirm that the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is equal to the target
E-TFCI in Table C.11.2.5. If the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is not
equal to the target E-TFCI, then fail the UE.

5\) Send alternating \"0\" and \"1\" TPC commands in the downlink so as
to satisfy the condition of obtaining TPC\_cmd = 0.

> 6\) Send Absolute Grants in a repeating pattern starting with the
> value according to Table C.11.2.5 and alternating between this value
> and an Absolute Grant Index of Zero\_Grant. This will generate a
> repeating pattern on the E-DPDCH(s) with a level corresponding to the
> sending of Scheduling Information every other 2ms E-DCH TTI as shown
> in Figure 5.2EB.1.

Figure 5.2EB.1: Transmit power profile showing measurement points

7\) Measure the relative code domain power of each active code at the
measurement points specified in Figure 5.2EB.1 at each transmit antenna
connector. Each measurement is made over one timeslot. Measurement point
1 is the last timeslot before TTI1. Measurement point 2 is the first
timeslot of TTI1 and measurement point 3 is the first timeslot of TTI2.
The 25 us transient periods at the ends of each measured timeslot shall
not be included. The nominal UE relative code domain power for each
active code at each point is defined in table 5.2EB.5. The required
accuracy which is the difference between the expected and measured code
domain power shall meet the test requirements given in table 5.2EB.6.

### 5.2EB.5 Test requirements

For all UE relative code domain power nominal ratios given in table
5.2EB.5 ≥ -30 dB the UE shall meet the UE relative code domain power
accuracy test requirements given in Table 5.2EB.6.

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL OLTD, the
relative code domain power accuracy applies at each transmit antenna
connector.

Table 5.2EB.5: UE relative code domain power nominal ratios

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Sub   | Meas  | Exp   |       |       |       |       |       |
| -Test | Point | ected |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       | Rel   |       |       |       |       |       |
| Table |       | ative |       |       |       |       |       |
| C.11  |       | Code  |       |       |       |       |       |
| .1A.5 |       | D     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | omain |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | Power |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | in dB |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       | DPCCH | HS-   | E-    | E-    | E-    | E-    |
|       |       |       | DPCCH | DPCCH | DPDCH | DPDCH | DPDCH |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1     | 2     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 3,4   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | 1     | -9.6  | -3.6  | -3.6  | -19.1 | OFF   | OFF   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | 2     | -13.4 | -7.4  | -7.4  | -7.4  | -7.4  | -9.4  |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | 3     | -9.6  | -3.6  | -3.6  | -19.1 | OFF   | OFF   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

Table 5.2EB.6: UE relative code domain power accuracy test
requirements,\
HSDPA and E-DCH with 16QAM

  -------------------- ---------------
  Nominal CDP ratio    Accuracy (dB)
  ≥ -10 dB             ±1.7
  -10 dB to ≥ -15 dB   ±2.3
  -15 dB to ≥ -20 dB   ±2.9
  -20 dB to ≥ -30 dB   ±3.5
  -------------------- ---------------

NOTE 1: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

NOTE 2: For the measurement points in which UE uses 16QAM modulation the
correction factor in the measurements shall be applied to the β~ed~
value used to compute the Nominal CDP equal to {A~1~\*(0.4472)\^2 +
A~2~\*(1.3416)\^2+ A~3~\*(-0.4472)\^2 + A~4~\*(-1.3416)\^2}^1/2^ where
A~1~, A~2~, A~3~ and A~4~ are the fractions of symbols (00, 01, 10, 11
respectively) transmitted during the test.

5.2EC UE Relative Code Domain Power Accuracy for HS-DPCCH and E-DCH with 16QAM for UL CLTD activation state 1
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> Editor's note: This clause is incomplete. The following aspects are
> either missing or not yet determined:

\- CM distribution for CLTD Mode 1 is incomplete.

### 5.2EC.1 Definition and applicability

The UE Relative code domain power accuracy is a measure of the ability
of the UE to correctly set the level of individual code powers relative
to the total power of all active codes. When the UE uses 16QAM
modulation on any of the uplink code channels the IQ origin offset power
shall be removed from the Measured CDP ratio; however, the removed
relative IQ origin offset power (relative carrier leakage power) also
has to satisfy the applicable requirement. The measure of accuracy is
the difference between two dB ratios:

UE Relative CDP accuracy = (Measured CDP ratio) - (Nominal CDP ratio)

where

Measured CDP ratio = 10\*log((Measured code power) / (Measured total
power of all active codes))

Nominal CDP ratio = 10\*log((Nominal CDP) / (Sum of all nominal CDPs))

The nominal CDP of a code is relative to the total of all codes and is
derived from beta factors.

When the UE uses 16QAM modulation a correction factor shall be applied
to the β~ed~ value used to compute the Nominal CDP equal to
{A~1~\*(0.4472)\^2 + A~2~\*(1.3416)\^2+ A~3~\*(-0.4472)\^2 +
A~4~\*(-1.3416)\^2}^1/2^ where A~1~, A~2~, A~3~ and A~4~ are the
fractions of symbols (00, 01, 10, 11 respectively) transmitted during
the test.

The sum of all nominal CDPs will equal 1 by definition.

NOTE: The above definition of UE relative CDP accuracy is independent of
variations in the actual total power of the signal and of noise in the
signal that falls on inactive codes.

The requirements apply for Release 11 and later releases for all types
of UTRA for the FDD UE that support E-DCH 16QAM UE capability category 7
and UL CLTD.

### 5.2EC.2 Minimum Requirements

The required accuracy of the UE relative CDP is given in table 5.2EC.1.
The UE relative CDP accuracy shall be maintained over the period during
which the total of all active code powers remains unchanged or one
timeslot, whichever is the longer.

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL CLTD activation
state 1, the relative code domain power accuracy specified in table
5.2CB.1 applies at each transmit antenna connector.

Table 5.2EC.1: UE Relative CDP accuracy, HS-DPCCH and E-DCH with 16QAM

  -------------------- ---------------
  Nominal CDP ratio    Accuracy (dB)
  ≥ -10 dB             ±1.5
  -10 dB to ≥ -15 dB   ±2.0
  -15 dB to ≥ -20 dB   ±2.5
  -20 dB to ≥ -30 dB   ±3.0
  -------------------- ---------------

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.2.3C.

### 5.2EC.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE relative code domain power accuracy for UL CLTD
activation state 1 meets the requirements given in table 5.2EC.6.

### 5.2EC.4 Method of test

#### 5.2EC.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the DL Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1,16QAM) are specified in Annex C, clauses C.11.1A
and C.8.1.1. The payload of the transport block for the DL Fixed
Reference Channels shall be PRBS data.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.19 with the
following exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages. These
exceptions allow the beta values to be set according to table C.11.1A.5
and each UL physical channel to be at constant power at the start of the
measurement. RF parameters are set up according to E.5A.1. Settings for
the serving cell are defined in table 5.2EC.4. Uplink SRB for DCCH
mapped on E-DCH and downlink SRB for DCCH on DCH. E-DCH is configured
with 2ms TTI.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping back HSDPA to E-DCH,
and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.2EC.2: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA) for Sub-test 1

  -------------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element              Value/Remark
  E-DCH info                       Uplink DPCH info
  \- E-DPCCH info                  
  \- E-DPDCH power interpolation   FALSE
  \- E-DPDCH info                  
  \- E-TFCI Table Index            2
  \- Reference E-TFCIs             3 E-TFCIs
  \- Reference E-TFCI              105
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO           12
  \- Reference E-TFCI              116
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO           14
  \- Reference E-TFCI              127
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO           16
  \- Max Channelisation Codes      SF4x2 and SF2x2
  -------------------------------- ------------------

Table 5.2EC.3: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (E-DCH
and HSDPA)

  --------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------
  Information Element                     Value/Remark
  CHOICE channel requirement              Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm              Algorithm2
  \- ∆ACK                                 Value used in test: see Table C.11.1A.5
  \- ∆NACK                                Value used in test: see Table C.11.1A.5
  \- Ack-Nack repetition factor           3 (required for continuous HS-DPCCH signal)
  E-DCH info                              
  \- E-DPCCH info                         
  \- E-DPCCH/DPCCH power offset           Value used in test: see Table C.11.1A.5
  \- E-TFC Boost Info                     
  \- E-TFCI boost                         Value used in test: see Table C.11.1A.5
  \- Delta T2TP                           12 dB
  \- UL 16QAM settings                    
  \- BetaEd gain E-AGCH table selection   0
  Downlink HS-PDSCH Information           
  **- Measurement Feedback Info**         
  \- CQI Feedback cycle, k                4 ms
  \- CQI repetition factor                2 (required for continuous HS-DPCCH signal)
  \- ∆CQI                                 Value used in test: see Table C.11.1A.5
  --------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------

Table 5.2EC.4: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of
UE Relative Code Domain Power Accuracy with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.2E.4.1                 |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

#### 5.2EC.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set the Absolute Grant according to Table C.11.1A.5.

2\) The SS starts transmitting HSDPA and the UE loops the received data
back on E-DCH.

3\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS to set the output power
of the UE to be in the range 15 dBm ± 2 dB.

4\) Confirm that the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is equal to the target
E-TFCI in Table C.11.1A.5. If the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is not
equal to the target E-TFCI, then fail the UE.

5\) Send alternating \"0\" and \"1\" TPC commands in the downlink so as
to satisfy the condition of obtaining TPC\_cmd = 0.

> 6\) Send Absolute Grants in a repeating pattern starting with the
> value according to Table C.11.1A.5 and alternating between this value
> and an Absolute Grant Index of Zero\_Grant. This will generate a
> repeating pattern on the E-DPDCH(s) with a level corresponding to the
> sending of Scheduling Information every other 2ms E-DCH TTI as shown
> in Figure 5.2EC.1.

Figure 5.2EC.1: Transmit power profile showing measurement points

7\) Measure the relative code domain power of each active code at the
measurement points specified in Figure 5.2EC.1 at each transmit antenna
connector. Each measurement is made over one timeslot. Measurement point
1 is the last timeslot before TTI1. Measurement point 2 is the first
timeslot of TTI1 and measurement point 3 is the first timeslot of TTI2.
The 25 us transient periods at the ends of each measured timeslot shall
not be included. The nominal UE relative code domain power for each
active code at each point is defined in table 5.2EC.5. The required
accuracy which is the difference between the expected and measured code
domain power shall meet the test requirements given in table 5.2EC.6.

### 5.2EC.5 Test requirements

For all UE relative code domain power nominal ratios given in table
5.2EC.5 ≥ -30 dB the UE shall meet the UE relative code domain power
accuracy test requirements given in Table 5.2EC.6.

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL CLTD activation
state 1, the relative code domain power accuracy applies at each
transmit antenna connector.

Table 5.2EC.5: UE relative code domain power nominal ratios

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Sub   | Meas  | Exp   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| -Test | Point | ected |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       | Rel   |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Table |       | ative |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| C.11  |       | Code  |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .1A.5 |       | D     |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | omain |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | Power |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | in dB |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       | DPCCH | S-    | HS-   | E-    | E-    | E-    | E-    |
|       |       |       | DPCCH | DPCCH | DPCCH | DPDCH | DPDCH | DPDCH |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1     | 2     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 3,4   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | 1     | -12.6 | -12.6 | -3.6  | -3.6  | -19.1 | OFF   | OFF   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | 2     | -16.4 | -16.4 | -7.4  | -7.4  | -7.4  | -7.4  | -9.4  |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | 3     | -12.6 | -12.6 | -3.6  | -3.6  | -19.1 | OFF   | OFF   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

Table 5.2EC.6: UE relative code domain power accuracy test
requirements,\
HSDPA and E-DCH with 16QAM

  -------------------- ---------------
  Nominal CDP ratio    Accuracy (dB)
  ≥ -10 dB             ±1.7
  -10 dB to ≥ -15 dB   ±2.3
  -15 dB to ≥ -20 dB   ±2.9
  -20 dB to ≥ -30 dB   ±3.5
  -------------------- ---------------

NOTE 1: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

NOTE 2: For the measurement points in which UE uses 16QAM modulation the
correction factor in the measurements shall be applied to the β~ed~
value used to compute the Nominal CDP equal to {A~1~\*(0.4472)\^2 +
A~2~\*(1.3416)\^2+ A~3~\*(-0.4472)\^2 + A~4~\*(-1.3416)\^2}^1/2^ where
A~1~, A~2~, A~3~ and A~4~ are the fractions of symbols (00, 01, 10, 11
respectively) transmitted during the test.

5.2ED UE Relative Code Domain Power Accuracy for HS-DPCCH and E-DCH with 16QAM for UL CLTD activation state 2 and 3
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.2ED.1 Definition and applicability

The UE Relative code domain power accuracy is a measure of the ability
of the UE to correctly set the level of individual code powers relative
to the total power of all active codes. When the UE uses 16QAM
modulation on any of the uplink code channels the IQ origin offset power
shall be removed from the Measured CDP ratio; however, the removed
relative IQ origin offset power (relative carrier leakage power) also
has to satisfy the applicable requirement. The measure of accuracy is
the difference between two dB ratios:

UE Relative CDP accuracy = (Measured CDP ratio) - (Nominal CDP ratio)

where

Measured CDP ratio = 10\*log((Measured code power) / (Measured total
power of all active codes))

Nominal CDP ratio = 10\*log((Nominal CDP) / (Sum of all nominal CDPs))

The nominal CDP of a code is relative to the total of all codes and is
derived from beta factors.

When the UE uses 16QAM modulation a correction factor shall be applied
to the β~ed~ value used to compute the Nominal CDP equal to
{A~1~\*(0.4472)\^2 + A~2~\*(1.3416)\^2+ A~3~\*(-0.4472)\^2 +
A~4~\*(-1.3416)\^2}^1/2^ where A~1~, A~2~, A~3~ and A~4~ are the
fractions of symbols (00, 01, 10, 11 respectively) transmitted during
the test.

The sum of all nominal CDPs will equal 1 by definition.

NOTE: The above definition of UE relative CDP accuracy is independent of
variations in the actual total power of the signal and of noise in the
signal that falls on inactive codes.

The requirements apply for Release 11 and later releases for all types
of UTRA for the FDD UE that support E-DCH 16QAM UE capability category 7
and UL CLTD.

### 5.2ED.2 Minimum Requirements

The required accuracy of the UE relative CDP is given in table 5.2ED.1.
The UE relative CDP accuracy shall be maintained over the period during
which the total of all active code powers remains unchanged or one
timeslot, whichever is the longer.

For UE configured in UL CLTD activation state 2 or activation state 3,
the relative code domain power accuracy specified in table 5.2ED.1
applies at the active transmit antenna connector.

Table 5.2ED.1: UE Relative CDP accuracy, HS-DPCCH and E-DCH with 16QAM

  -------------------- ---------------
  Nominal CDP ratio    Accuracy (dB)
  ≥ -10 dB             ±1.5
  -10 dB to ≥ -15 dB   ±2.0
  -15 dB to ≥ -20 dB   ±2.5
  -20 dB to ≥ -30 dB   ±3.0
  -------------------- ---------------

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.2.3C.

### 5.2ED.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE relative code domain power accuracy for UL CLTD
activation state 2 and 3 meets the requirements given in table 5.2ED.6.

### 5.2ED.4 Method of test

#### 5.2ED.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the DL Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1,16QAM) are specified in Annex C.11.1 and C.8.1.1.
The payload of the transport block for the DL Fixed Reference Channels
shall be PRBS data.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.19 with the
following exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages. These
exceptions allow the beta values to be set according to table C.11.1.4
and each UL physical channel to be at constant power at the start of the
measurement. RF parameters are set up according to table E.5A.1.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.2ED.4. Uplink SRB
for DCCH mapped on E-DCH and downlink SRB for DCCH on DCH. E-DCH is
configured with 2ms TTI.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping back HSDPA to E-DCH,
and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.2ED.2: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA) for Sub-test 1

  -------------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element              Value/Remark
  E-DCH info                       Uplink DPCH info
  \- E-DPCCH info                  
  \- E-DPDCH power interpolation   FALSE
  \- E-DPDCH info                  
  \- E-TFCI Table Index            2
  \- Reference E-TFCIs             3 E-TFCIs
  \- Reference E-TFCI              105
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO           12
  \- Reference E-TFCI              116
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO           14
  \- Reference E-TFCI              127
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO           16
  \- Max Channelisation Codes      SF4x2 and SF2x2
  -------------------------------- ------------------

Table 5.2ED.3: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (E-DCH
and HSDPA)

  --------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------
  Information Element                     Value/Remark
  CHOICE channel requirement              Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm              Algorithm2
  \- ∆ACK                                 Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.4
  \- ∆NACK                                Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.4
  \- Ack-Nack repetition factor           3 (required for continuous HS-DPCCH signal)
  E-DCH info                              
  \- E-DPCCH info                         
  \- E-DPCCH/DPCCH power offset           Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.4
  \- E-TFC Boost Info                     
  \- E-TFCI boost                         Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.4
  \- Delta T2TP                           12 dB
  \- UL 16QAM settings                    
  \- BetaEd gain E-AGCH table selection   0
  Downlink HS-PDSCH Information           
  **- Measurement Feedback Info**         
  \- CQI Feedback cycle, k                4 ms
  \- CQI repetition factor                2 (required for continuous HS-DPCCH signal)
  \- ∆CQI                                 Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.4
  --------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------

Table 5.2ED.4: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of
UE Relative Code Domain Power Accuracy with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.2E.4.1                 |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

Table 5.2ED.4A: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA)

  ---------------------------------- -------------- ---------
  Information Element                Value/remark   Version
  Uplink CLTD info FDD                              Rel-11
  \- CHOICE *Mode*                   New            
  \- S-DPCCH Info                                   
  \- S-DPCCH/DPCCH power offset      0              
  \- Initial CLTD activation state   Second state   
  ---------------------------------- -------------- ---------

#### 5.2ED.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set the Absolute Grant according to Table C.11.1.4.

2\) The SS starts transmitting HSDPA and the UE loops the received data
back on E-DCH.

3\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS to set the output power
of the UE to be in the range 15 dBm ± 2 dB.

4\) Confirm that the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is equal to the target
E-TFCI in Table C.11.1.4. If the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is not
equal to the target E-TFCI, then fail the UE.

5\) Send alternating \"0\" and \"1\" TPC commands in the downlink so as
to satisfy the condition of obtaining TPC\_cmd = 0.

> 6\) Send Absolute Grants in a repeating pattern starting with the
> value according to Table C.11.1.4 and alternating between this value
> and an Absolute Grant Index of Zero\_Grant. This will generate a
> repeating pattern on the E-DPDCH(s) with a level corresponding to the
> sending of Scheduling Information every other 2ms E-DCH TTI as shown
> in Figure 5.2ED.1.

Figure 5.2ED.1: Transmit power profile showing measurement points

7\) Measure the relative code domain power of each active code at the
measurement points specified in Figure 5.2ED.1 at the active transmit
antenna connector. Each measurement is made over one timeslot.
Measurement point 1 is the last timeslot before TTI1. Measurement point
2 is the first timeslot of TTI1 and measurement point 3 is the first
timeslot of TTI2. The 25 us transient periods at the ends of each
measured timeslot shall not be included. The nominal UE relative code
domain power for each active code at each point is defined in table
5.2ED.5. The required accuracy which is the difference between the
expected and measured code domain power shall meet the test requirements
given in table 5.2ED.6.

> 8\) SS sends a HS-SCCH order activating UL\_CLTD activation state 3
>
> 9\) Repeat step 1 to 7 for activation state 3.

### 5.2ED.5 Test requirements

For all UE relative code domain power nominal ratios given in table
5.2ED.5 ≥ -30 dB the UE shall meet the UE relative code domain power
accuracy test requirements given in Table 5.2ED.6.

For UE configured in UL CLTD activation state 2 or activation state 3,
the relative code domain power accuracy applies at the active transmit
antenna connector.

Table 5.2ED.5: UE relative code domain power nominal ratios

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Sub   | Meas  | Exp   |       |       |       |       |       |
| -Test | Point | ected |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       | Rel   |       |       |       |       |       |
| Table |       | ative |       |       |       |       |       |
| C.1   |       | Code  |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1.1.4 |       | D     |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | omain |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | Power |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | in dB |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       | DPCCH | HS-   | E-    | E-    | E-    | E-    |
|       |       |       | DPCCH | DPCCH | DPDCH | DPDCH | DPDCH |
|       |       |       |       |       | 1     | 2     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       | 3,4   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | 1     | -9.6  | -3.6  | -3.6  | -19.1 | OFF   | OFF   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | 2     | -13.4 | -7.4  | -7.4  | -7.4  | -7.4  | -9.4  |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | 3     | -9.6  | -3.6  | -3.6  | -19.1 | OFF   | OFF   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

Table 5.2ED.6: UE relative code domain power accuracy test
requirements,\
HSDPA and E-DCH with 16QAM

  -------------------- ---------------
  Nominal CDP ratio    Accuracy (dB)
  ≥ -10 dB             ±1.7
  -10 dB to ≥ -15 dB   ±2.3
  -15 dB to ≥ -20 dB   ±2.9
  -20 dB to ≥ -30 dB   \[±3.5\]
  -------------------- ---------------

NOTE 1: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

NOTE 2: For the measurement points in which UE uses 16QAM modulation the
correction factor in the measurements shall be applied to the β~ed~
value used to compute the Nominal CDP equal to {A~1~\*(0.4472)\^2 +
A~2~\*(1.3416)\^2+ A~3~\*(-0.4472)\^2 + A~4~\*(-1.3416)\^2}^1/2^ where
A~1~, A~2~, A~3~ and A~4~ are the fractions of symbols (00, 01, 10, 11
respectively) transmitted during the test.

5.3 Frequency Error
-------------------

### 5.3.1 Definition and applicability

The frequency error is the difference between the RF modulated carrier
frequency transmitted from the UE and the assigned frequency. The UE
transmitter tracks to the RF carrier frequency received from the Node B.
These signals will have an apparent error due to Node B frequency error
and Doppler shift. In the later case, signals from the Node B must be
averaged over sufficient time that errors due to noise or interference
are allowed for within the minimum requirements specified in 5.3.2.

The UE shall use the same frequency source for both RF frequency
generation and the chip clock.

The requirements and this test apply to all types of UTRA for the FDD
UE.

### 5.3.2 Minimum Requirements

The UE modulated carrier frequency shall be accurate to within ±0,1 ppm
observed over a period of one timeslot compared to the carrier frequency
received from the Node B.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.3.

### 5.3.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE carrier frequency error does not exceed ±0,1 ppm.
This requirement is tested with the UE receiver at the reference
sensitivity.

An excess error of the carrier frequency increases the transmission
errors in the up link own channel.

This test verifies the ability of the receiver to derive correct
frequency information for the transmitter, when locked to the DL carrier
frequency.

### 5.3.4 Method of test

#### 5.3.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment for UE without vibration sensitive components: normal,
TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Test environment for other UE: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH,
vibration; see clauses G.2.1, G.2.2 and G.2.3.

NOTE: \"UE without vibration sensitive components\" is declared in table
A.12 of \[32\].

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.1.

2\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure in
TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.2, and RF parameters (DPCH\_Ec and Îor)
are set up according to table 6.2.2. The relative power level of other
downlink physical channels to the DPCH\_Ec are set up according to
clause E.3.2.

3\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

#### 5.3.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE until
the UE reaches its maximum output power.

2\) Measure the frequency error delta f, using the Global
In-Channel-Tx-test (annex B).

### 5.3.5 Test Requirements

For all measurements, the frequency error, derived in step 2), shall not
exceed ±(0,1 ppm + 10 Hz).

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.3A Frequency Error for DC-HSUPA
---------------------------------

### 5.3A.1 Definition and applicability

The frequency error for DC-HSUPA is the difference, for each carrier,
between the RF modulated carrier frequency transmitted from the UE and
the assigned frequency. The UE transmitter tracks to the RF carrier
frequencies received from the Node B. These signals will have an
apparent error due to Node B frequency error and Doppler shift. In the
later case, signals from the Node B must be averaged over sufficient
time that errors due to noise or interference are allowed for within the
minimum requirements specified in clause 5.3A.2.

The UE shall use the same frequency source for both RF frequency
generation and the chip clock.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 9 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA and Dual Cell E-DCH.

### 5.3A.2 Minimum Requirements

The UE modulated carrier frequency per carrier shall be accurate to
within ±0,1 ppm observed over a period of one timeslot compared to the
carrier frequencies received from the Node B. If the signal from one
Node B cell is out-of-sync, the UE modulated carrier frequency shall be
compared to the remaining carrier frequency received from the other Node
B cell.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.3A.

### 5.3A.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE carrier frequency error, on each carrier, does not
exceed ±0,1 ppm. This requirement is tested with the UE receiver at the
reference sensitivity.

An excess error of the carrier frequency increases the transmission
errors in the up link own channel.

This test verifies the ability of the receiver to derive correct
frequency information for the transmitter, when locked to the DL carrier
frequencies.

### 5.3A.4 Method of test

#### 5.3A.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment for UE without vibration sensitive components: normal,
TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Test environment for other UE: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH,
vibration; see clauses G.2.1, G.2.2 and G.2.3.

NOTE: \"UE without vibration sensitive components\" is declared in table
A.12 of \[32\].

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.41.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and parameters are specified in
Annex C.2.6 and C.11A. The DL Reference Measurement Channel (FRC H-SET
3A, QPSK) is specified in C.8.1.1.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure
specified in TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.14, and RF parameters
(HS-PDSCH\_Ec and Îor) are set up according to table 6.2A.1. The other
RF parameters are set up according to table E.5A.1A.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

#### 5.3A.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set the UE to maximum output power according to 5.2BA.4.2 steps 1 to
4 with the exception that only configuration \#3 from table 5.2BA.5A is
applied..

2\) Measure the frequency error delta f on each of the two assigned
channel frequencies, using the Global In-Channel-Tx-test (annex B).

### 5.3A.5 Test Requirements

For all measurements, the frequency error, derived in step 2), shall not
exceed ±(0,1 ppm + 10 Hz).

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.3B Frequency Error for OLTD
-----------------------------

### 5.3B.1 Definition and applicability

The frequency error for OLTD is the difference, between the RF modulated
carrier frequency transmitted at each antenna connector from the UE and
the assigned frequency. The UE transmitter tracks to the RF carrier
frequency received from the Node B. These signals will have an apparent
error due to Node B frequency error and Doppler shift. In the later
case, signals from the Node B must be averaged over sufficient time that
errors due to noise or interference are allowed for within the minimum
requirements specified in 5.3B.2.

The UE shall use the same frequency source for both RF frequency
generation and the chip clock.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support OLTD.

### 5.3B.2 Minimum Requirements

The UE modulated carrier frequency at each antenna connector shall be
accurate to within ±0,1 ppm observed over a period of one timeslot
compared to the carrier frequency received from the Node B.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.3B.

### 5.3B.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE carrier frequency error at each antenna connector
does not exceed ±0,1 ppm. This requirement is tested with the UE
receiver at the reference sensitivity.

An excess error of the carrier frequency increases the transmission
errors in the up link own channel.

This test verifies the ability of the receiver to derive correct
frequency information for the transmitter, when locked to the DL carrier
frequency.

### 5.3B.4 Method of test

#### 5.3B.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment for UE without vibration sensitive components: normal,
TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Test environment for other UE: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH,
vibration; see clauses G.2.1, G.2.2 and G.2.3.

NOTE: \"UE without vibration sensitive components\" is declared in table
A.12 of \[32\].

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and parameters are specified in
Annex C, clause C.10.2. The DL Fixed Reference Channels (FRC H-Set 1,
QPSK) is specified in Annex C.8.1.1.

3\) An HSDPA call with OLTD is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\]
7.3.18. RF parameters are set up according to tables E.5.1 and E.5.10.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.3B.1.

4\) SS sends a HS-SCCH order activating OLTD.

5\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

Table 5.3B.1: Settings for the serving cell

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.3B.4.1                 |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

#### 5.3B.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE until
the UE reaches its maximum output power.

2\) Measure the frequency error delta f at each antenna connector, using
the Global In-Channel-Tx-test (annex B).

### 5.3B.5 Test Requirements

For all measurements, the frequency error at each antenna connector,
derived in step 2), shall not exceed ±(0,1 ppm + 10 Hz).

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.3C Frequency Error for UL CLTD Activation state 1
---------------------------------------------------

### 5.3C.1 Definition and applicability

The frequency error for UL CLTD is the difference, between the RF
modulated carrier frequency transmitted at each antenna connector from
the UE and the assigned frequency. The UE transmitter tracks to the RF
carrier frequency received from the Node B. These signals will have an
apparent error due to Node B frequency error and Doppler shift. In the
later case, signals from the Node B must be averaged over sufficient
time that errors due to noise or interference are allowed for within the
minimum requirements specified in 5.3C.2.

The UE shall use the same frequency source for both RF frequency
generation and the chip clock.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support UL CLTD.

### 5.3C.2 Minimum Requirements

The UE modulated carrier frequency at each antenna connector shall be
accurate to within ±0,1 ppm observed over a period of one timeslot
compared to the carrier frequency received from the Node B.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.3C.

### 5.3C.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE carrier frequency error at each antenna connector
does not exceed ±0,1 ppm. This requirement is tested with the UE
receiver at the reference sensitivity.

An excess error of the carrier frequency increases the transmission
errors in the up link own channel.

This test verifies the ability of the receiver to derive correct
frequency information for the transmitter, when locked to the DL carrier
frequency.

### 5.3C.4 Method of test

#### 5.3C.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment for UE without vibration sensitive components: normal,
TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Test environment for other UE: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH,
vibration; see clauses G.2.1, G.2.2 and G.2.3.

NOTE: \"UE without vibration sensitive components\" is declared in table
A.12 of \[32\].

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and parameters are specified in
Annex C, clause C.10.2. The DL Fixed Reference Channels (FRC H-Set 1,
QPSK) is specified in Annex C.8.1.1.

3\) An HSDPA call with CLTD is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\]
7.3.17. RF parameters are set up according to table s E.5.1and E.5.10.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.3C.1.

4\) SS sends a HS-SCCH order activating UL\_CLTD activation state 1.

5\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

Table 5.3C.1: Settings for the serving cell

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.3C.4.1                 |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

#### 5.3C.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE until
the UE reaches its maximum output power.

2\) Measure the frequency error delta f at each antenna connector, using
the Global In-Channel-Tx-test (annex B).

### 5.3C.5 Test Requirements

For all measurements, the frequency error at each antenna connector,
derived in step 2), shall not exceed ±(0,1 ppm + 10 Hz).

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.3D Frequency Error for UL CLTD Activation state 2 and 3
---------------------------------------------------------

### 5.3D.1 Definition and applicability

The frequency error for UL CLTD is the difference, between the RF
modulated carrier frequency transmitted at each antenna connector from
the UE and the assigned frequency. The UE transmitter tracks to the RF
carrier frequency received from the Node B. These signals will have an
apparent error due to Node B frequency error and Doppler shift. In the
later case, signals from the Node B must be averaged over sufficient
time that errors due to noise or interference are allowed for within the
minimum requirements specified in 5.3D.2.

The UE shall use the same frequency source for both RF frequency
generation and the chip clock.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support UL CLTD.

### 5.3D.2 Minimum Requirements

The UE modulated carrier frequency at each antenna connector shall be
accurate to within ±0,1 ppm observed over a period of one timeslot
compared to the carrier frequency received from the Node B.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.3C.

### 5.3D.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE carrier frequency error at each antenna connector
does not exceed ±0,1 ppm. This requirement is tested with the UE
receiver at the reference sensitivity.

An excess error of the carrier frequency increases the transmission
errors in the up link own channel.

This test verifies the ability of the receiver to derive correct
frequency information for the transmitter, when locked to the DL carrier
frequency.

### 5.3D.4 Method of test

#### 5.3D.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment for UE without vibration sensitive components: normal,
TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Test environment for other UE: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH,
vibration; see clauses G.2.1, G.2.2 and G.2.3.

NOTE: \"UE without vibration sensitive components\" is declared in table
A.12 of \[32\].

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and parameters are specified in
Annex C, clause C.10.2. The DL Fixed Reference Channels (FRC H-Set 1,
QPSK) is specified in Annex C.8.1.1.

3\) An HSDPA call with CLTD is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\]
7.3.17. RF parameters are set up according to tablesE.5.1 and E.5.10.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.3D.1.

4\) SS sends a HS-SCCH order activating UL\_CLTD activation state 2.

5\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test for state 2.

Table 5.3D.1: Settings for the serving cell

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.3D.4.1                 |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

#### 5.3D.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE until
the UE reaches its maximum output power.

2\) Measure the frequency error delta f at each antenna connector, using
the Global In-Channel-Tx-test (annex B).

3\) SS sends a HS-SCCH order activating UL\_CLTD activation state 3.

4\) Repeat step 1 to 2 for activation state 3.

### 5.3D.5 Test Requirements

For all measurements, the frequency error at each antenna connector,
derived in step 2), shall not exceed ±(0,1 ppm + 10 Hz).

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.4 Output Power Dynamics in the Uplink
---------------------------------------

Power control is used to limit the interference level.

### 5.4.1 Open Loop Power Control in the Uplink

#### 5.4.1.1 Definition and applicability

Open loop power control in the uplink is the ability of the UE
transmitter to set its output power to a specific value. This function
is used for PRACH transmission and based on the information from Node B
using BCCH and the downlink received signal power level of the CPICH.
The information from Node B includes transmission power of CPICH and
uplink interference power level.

The requirements and this test apply to all types of UTRA for the FDD
UE.

#### 5.4.1.2 Minimum requirements

The UE open loop power is defined as the mean power in a timeslot or ON
power duration, whichever is available.

The UE open loop power control tolerance is given in table 5.4.1.1.

Table 5.4.1.1: Open loop power control tolerance

  -------------------- --------
  Normal conditions    ±9 dB
  Extreme conditions   ±12 dB
  -------------------- --------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 6.4.1.

#### 5.4.1.3 Test purpose

The power measured by the UE of the received signal and the signalled
BCCH information are used by the UE to control the power of the UE
transmitted signal with the target to transmit at the lowest power
acceptable for proper communication.

The test stresses the ability of the receiver to measure the received
power correctly over the receiver dynamic range.

The test purpose is to verify that the UE open loop power control
tolerance does not exceed the described value shown in table 5.4.1.1.

An excess error of the open loop power control decreases the system
capacity.

#### 5.4.1.4 Method of test

##### 5.4.1.4.1 Initial conditions {#initial-conditions-2 .H6}

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.1.

2\) Channel conditions are initially set up with received CPICH\_RSCP
\>-85 dBm. The relative power level of downlink physical channels to Ior
are set up according to clause E.2.1. The parameter settings of the cell
are set up according to Table 5.4.1.1a.

3\) Switch on the phone.

4\) After the UE has performed registration and entered idle mode, Îor
is set up according to table 5.4.1.2. The relative power level of
downlink physical channels to Ior are set up according to clause E.2.1

5\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure in
\[3\] clause 7.3.1 with channel conditions according the test parameters
in table 5.4.1.3, The RACH procedure within the call setup is used for
the test.

Table 5.4.1.1a: Settings for the serving cell

  ------------------------ ------ --------------
  Parameter                Unit   Cell 1
  Cell type                       Serving cell
  UTRA RF Channel Number          Channel 1
  Qqualmin                 dB     -24
  Qrxlevmin                dBm    -115
  UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     dBm    21
  Preamble Retrans Max            1
  ------------------------ ------ --------------

Table 5.4.1.2: Test parameters for Open Loop Power Control (UE)

  ----------- ------------------- ----------------
  Parameter   Level / Status      Unit
  Îor         See table 5.4.1.3   dBm / 3,84 MHz
  ----------- ------------------- ----------------

Table 5.4.1.3: Test parameters for Open Loop Power Control (SS)

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
| Parameter   | RX Upper    | RX-middle   | RX-         |            |
|             | dynamic end |             | Sensitivity |            |
|             |             |             | level       |            |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
| Îor (note   | -25,0 dBm / | -65,7 dBm / | \           |            |
| 3)          | 3,84 MHz    | 3,84 MHz    | <REFÎ~or~\> |            |
|             |             |             | dBm / 3,84  |            |
|             |             |             | MHz         |            |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
| CPICH\_RSCP | -28,9 dBm   | -69,6 dBm   | \           |            |
| (notes 3    |             |             | <REFÎ~or~\> |            |
| and 4)      |             |             | +CPICH\_Ec  |            |
|             |             |             | / Ior       |            |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
| Primary     | +19 dBm     | +28 dBm     | +19 dBm     |            |
| CPICH DL TX |             |             |             |            |
| power       |             |             |             |            |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
| Simulated   | +47.9 dB    | +97.6 dB    | Band I, IV, |            |
| path loss = |             |             | VI, X, XIX, |            |
| Primary     |             |             | XI, XXI:    |            |
| CPICH DL TX |             |             | +128.9 dB   |            |
| power -     |             |             |             |            |
| CPICH\_RSCP |             |             | Band II, V, |            |
|             |             |             | VII, XI:    |            |
|             |             |             | +126.9 dB   |            |
|             |             |             |             |            |
|             |             |             | Band III,   |            |
|             |             |             | VIII, XII,  |            |
|             |             |             | XIII, XIV,  |            |
|             |             |             | XX, XXII:   |            |
|             |             |             | +125.9 dB   |            |
|             |             |             |             |            |
|             |             |             | Band IX:    |            |
|             |             |             | +127.9 dB   |            |
|             |             |             |             |            |
|             |             |             | Band XXV,   |            |
|             |             |             | XXVI:       |            |
|             |             |             | +125.4 dB   |            |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
| UL          | Band I, IV, | -75 dBm     | -101 dBm    | -110 dBm   |
| i           | VI, X, XIX, |             |             |            |
| nterference | XI, XXI     |             |             |            |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
|             | Band II, V, |             |             | -108 dBm   |
|             | VII         |             |             |            |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
|             | Band III,   |             |             | -107 dBm   |
|             | VIII, XII,  |             |             |            |
|             | XIII, XIV,  |             |             |            |
|             | XX, XXII    |             |             |            |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
|             | Band IX     |             |             | -109 dBm   |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
|             | Band XXV,   |             |             | -106.5 dBm |
|             | XXVI        |             |             |            |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
| Constant    | -10 dB      | -10 dB      | -10 dB      |            |
| Value       |             |             |             |            |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
| Expected    | -37.1 dBm   | -13.4 dBm   | +8.9 dBm    |            |
| nominal UE  |             |             | (note 2)    |            |
| TX power    |             |             |             |            |
| (note 5)    |             |             |             |            |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
| NOTE 1:     |             |             |             |            |
| While the   |             |             |             |            |
| SS transmit |             |             |             |            |
| power shall |             |             |             |            |
| cover the   |             |             |             |            |
| receiver    |             |             |             |            |
| input       |             |             |             |            |
| dynamic     |             |             |             |            |
| range, the  |             |             |             |            |
| logical     |             |             |             |            |
| parameters: |             |             |             |            |
| Primary     |             |             |             |            |
| CPICH DL TX |             |             |             |            |
| power, UL   |             |             |             |            |
| in          |             |             |             |            |
| terference, |             |             |             |            |
| Constant    |             |             |             |            |
| Value are   |             |             |             |            |
| chosen to   |             |             |             |            |
| achieve a   |             |             |             |            |
| UE TX       |             |             |             |            |
| power,      |             |             |             |            |
| located     |             |             |             |            |
| within the  |             |             |             |            |
| TX output   |             |             |             |            |
| power       |             |             |             |            |
| dynamic     |             |             |             |            |
| range of a  |             |             |             |            |
| class 4 UE. |             |             |             |            |
|             |             |             |             |            |
| NOTE 2:     |             |             |             |            |
| Nominal TX  |             |             |             |            |
| output      |             |             |             |            |
| power \<9   |             |             |             |            |
| dBm allows  |             |             |             |            |
| to check    |             |             |             |            |
| the open    |             |             |             |            |
| loop power  |             |             |             |            |
| algorithm   |             |             |             |            |
| within the  |             |             |             |            |
| entire      |             |             |             |            |
| tolerance   |             |             |             |            |
| range (9    |             |             |             |            |
| dBm ± 12    |             |             |             |            |
| dB; 9 dBm + |             |             |             |            |
| 12 dB = 21  |             |             |             |            |
| dBm = max   |             |             |             |            |
| power class |             |             |             |            |
| 4).         |             |             |             |            |
|             |             |             |             |            |
| NOTE 3:     |             |             |             |            |
| \           |             |             |             |            |
| <REFÎ~or~\> |             |             |             |            |
| is          |             |             |             |            |
| specified   |             |             |             |            |
| in Table    |             |             |             |            |
| 6.2.2, and  |             |             |             |            |
| CPICH\_Ec / |             |             |             |            |
| Ior is      |             |             |             |            |
| specified   |             |             |             |            |
| in Table    |             |             |             |            |
| E.2.2. The  |             |             |             |            |
| power level |             |             |             |            |
| of S-CCPCH  |             |             |             |            |
| should be   |             |             |             |            |
| defined     |             |             |             |            |
| because     |             |             |             |            |
| S-CCPCH is  |             |             |             |            |
| transmitted |             |             |             |            |
| during      |             |             |             |            |
| Preamble    |             |             |             |            |
| RACH        |             |             |             |            |
| t           |             |             |             |            |
| ransmission |             |             |             |            |
| period. The |             |             |             |            |
| power level |             |             |             |            |
| of S-CCPCH  |             |             |             |            |
| is set to   |             |             |             |            |
| -5.3 dB     |             |             |             |            |
| relative to |             |             |             |            |
| Ior.        |             |             |             |            |
|             |             |             |             |            |
| NOTE 4: The |             |             |             |            |
| purpose of  |             |             |             |            |
| this        |             |             |             |            |
| parameter   |             |             |             |            |
| is to       |             |             |             |            |
| calculate   |             |             |             |            |
| the         |             |             |             |            |
| Expected    |             |             |             |            |
| nominal UE  |             |             |             |            |
| TX power.   |             |             |             |            |
|             |             |             |             |            |
| NOTE 5: The |             |             |             |            |
| Expected    |             |             |             |            |
| nominal UE  |             |             |             |            |
| TX power is |             |             |             |            |
| calculated  |             |             |             |            |
| by using    |             |             |             |            |
| the         |             |             |             |            |
| equation in |             |             |             |            |
| the clause  |             |             |             |            |
| 8.5.7 Open  |             |             |             |            |
| Loop Power  |             |             |             |            |
| Control of  |             |             |             |            |
| TS 25.331   |             |             |             |            |
| \[8\].      |             |             |             |            |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+

##### 5.4.1.4.2 Procedure {#procedure-2 .H6}

1\) Set the TX output level of the SS to obtain Îor at the UE antenna
connector. Îor shall be according to table 5.4.1.3 (-25 dBm / 3,84 MHz).

2\) Measure the first RACH preamble mean power of the UE.

3\) Repeat the above measurement for all SS levels in table 5.4.1.3.

#### 5.4.1.5 Test requirements

The deviation with respect to the Expected nominal UE TX power (table
5.4.1.3), derived in step 2) shall not exceed the prescribed tolerance
in table 5.4.1.4.

Table 5.4.1.4: Open loop power control tolerance

  -------------------- --------
  Normal conditions    ±10 dB
  Extreme conditions   ±13 dB
  -------------------- --------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

### 5.4.1A Open Loop Power Control in the Uplink for DC-HSUPA

#### 5.4.1A.1 Definition and applicability

Open loop power control in the uplink for DC-HSUPA is the ability of the
UE transmitter to set its output power, for each carrier, to a specific
value. This function is used for initial Dual Cell transmission in
CELL\_DCH and based on the information from Node B using RADIO BEARER
SETUP message and the downlink received signal power level of the CPICH.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 9 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA and Dual Cell E-DCH.

#### 5.4.1A.2 Minimum requirements

The UE open loop power is defined as the mean power in a timeslot or ON
power duration, whichever is available.

The UE open loop power control tolerance per carrier is given in table
5.4.1A.1.

Table 5.4.1A.1: Open loop power control tolerance

  -------------------- --------
  Normal conditions    ±9 dB
  Extreme conditions   ±12 dB
  -------------------- --------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 6.4.1.1A

#### 5.4.1A.3 Test purpose

The power measured by the UE of the received signal and information in
RADIO BEARER SETUP message are used by the UE to control the power of
the UE transmitted signal with the target to transmit at the lowest
power acceptable for proper communication.

The test stresses the ability of the receiver to measure the received
power correctly over the receiver dynamic range.

The test purpose is to verify that the UE open loop power control
tolerance does not exceed the described value shown in table 5.4.1A.1
during Dual Cell E-DCH.

An excess error of the open loop power control decreases the system
capacity.

#### 5.4.1A.4 Method of test

##### 5.4.1A.4.1 Initial conditions {#a.4.1-initial-conditions-2 .H6}

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range, see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.41.

2\) Channel conditions are initially set up with received CPICH\_RSCP
\>-85 dBm. The relative power level of downlink physical channels to Ior
are set up according to clause E.5.0. The parameter settings of the cell
are set up according to Table 5.4.1A.1a.

3\) Switch on the phone.

4\) After the UE has performed registration and entered idle mode, Îor
for primary and secondary serving cells are set up according to
table 5.4.1A.2.

5\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure in
TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.14 with channel conditions, for primary
and secondary serving cells, according to the test parameters in table
5.4.1A.3 and exception for information elements in RADIO BEARER SETUP
message as specified in table 5.4.1A.4. The uplink DPCCH power control
preambles related to the call setup is used for the test.

Table 5.4.1A.1a: Settings for the serving cell

  ------------------------ ------ --------------
  Parameter                Unit   Cell 1
  Cell type                       Serving cell
  UTRA RF Channel Number          Channel 1
  Qqualmin                 dB     -24
  Qrxlevmin                dBm    -115
  UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     dBm    21
  Preamble Retrans Max            1
  ------------------------ ------ --------------

Table 5.4.1A.2: Test parameters for Open Loop Power Control (UE)

  ----------- -------------------- ----------------
  Parameter   Level / Status       Unit
  Îor         See table 5.4.1A.3   dBm / 3,84 MHz
  ----------- -------------------- ----------------

Table 5.4.1A.3: Test parameters for Open Loop Power Control (SS)

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Parameter      | RX Upper       | RX-middle      | RX-Sensitivity |
|                | dynamic end    |                | level          |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Îor (note 3)   | -25,0 dBm /    | -65,7 dBm /    | \<REFÎ~or~\>   |
|                | 3,84 MHz       | 3,84 MHz       | dBm / 3,84 MHz |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| CPICH\_RSCP    | -28,9 dBm      | -69,6 dBm      | \<REFÎ~or~\>   |
| (notes 3 and   |                |                | +CPICH\_Ec /   |
| 4)             |                |                | Ior            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| DPCCH Power    | -66 dB         | -84 dB         | Band I, IV,    |
| offset         |                |                | VI, IX, X, XI, |
|                |                |                | XIX, XXI: -108 |
|                |                |                | dB             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Band II, III,  |
|                |                |                | V, VII, VIII,  |
|                |                |                | XII, XIII,     |
|                |                |                | XIV, XX, XXII: |
|                |                |                | -106 dB        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Expected       | -37.1 dBm      | -14.4 dBm      | Band I, II,    |
| nominal UE TX  |                |                | IV, V, VI,     |
| power (note 5) |                |                | VII, X, XI,    |
|                |                |                | XIX, XXI:+8.7  |
|                |                |                | dBm (note 2)   |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Band III,      |
|                |                |                | VIII, IX, XII, |
|                |                |                | XIII, XIV, XX, |
|                |                |                | XXII: +7.7 dBm |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| NOTE 1: While  |                |                |                |
| the SS         |                |                |                |
| transmit power |                |                |                |
| shall cover    |                |                |                |
| the receiver   |                |                |                |
| input dynamic  |                |                |                |
| range, the     |                |                |                |
| logical        |                |                |                |
| parameter      |                |                |                |
| DPCCH Power    |                |                |                |
| offset is      |                |                |                |
| chosen to      |                |                |                |
| achieve a UE   |                |                |                |
| TX power,      |                |                |                |
| located within |                |                |                |
| the TX output  |                |                |                |
| power dynamic  |                |                |                |
| range of a     |                |                |                |
| class 4 UE.    |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 2:        |                |                |                |
| Nominal TX     |                |                |                |
| output power   |                |                |                |
| \<9 dBm allows |                |                |                |
| to check the   |                |                |                |
| open loop      |                |                |                |
| power          |                |                |                |
| algorithm      |                |                |                |
| within the     |                |                |                |
| entire         |                |                |                |
| tolerance      |                |                |                |
| range (9 dBm ± |                |                |                |
| 12 dB; 9 dBm + |                |                |                |
| 12 dB = 21 dBm |                |                |                |
| = max power    |                |                |                |
| class 4).      |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 3:        |                |                |                |
| \<REFÎ~or~\>   |                |                |                |
| is specified   |                |                |                |
| in Table       |                |                |                |
| 6.2.2, and     |                |                |                |
| CPICH\_Ec /    |                |                |                |
| Ior is         |                |                |                |
| specified in   |                |                |                |
| Table E.5.0.   |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 4: The    |                |                |                |
| purpose of     |                |                |                |
| this parameter |                |                |                |
| is to          |                |                |                |
| calculate the  |                |                |                |
| Expected       |                |                |                |
| nominal UE TX  |                |                |                |
| power.         |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 5: The    |                |                |                |
| Expected       |                |                |                |
| nominal UE TX  |                |                |                |
| power is       |                |                |                |
| calculated by  |                |                |                |
| using the      |                |                |                |
| equation in    |                |                |                |
| the clause     |                |                |                |
| 8.5.3 Open     |                |                |                |
| Loop Power     |                |                |                |
| Control of TS  |                |                |                |
| 25.331 \[8\].  |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

Table 5.4.1A.4: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM

  ----------------------------------- ---
  Uplink radio resources              
  \- Uplink DPCH info                 
  \- PC Preamble                      1
  \- SRB Delay                        7
  \- Uplink secondary Cell info FDD   
  \- PC Preamble                      1
  ----------------------------------- ---

##### 5.4.1A.4.2 Procedure {#a.4.2-procedure-2 .H6}

1\) Set the TX output level of the SS to obtain Îor at the UE antenna
connector. Îor shall be according to table 5.4.1A.3 (-25 dBm / 3,84
MHz).

2\) Measure the Dual Cell transmission mean power from the first slot of
uplink DPCCH PC preamble for each carrier.

3\) Repeat the above measurement for all SS levels in table 5.4.1A.3.

#### 5.4.1A.5 Test requirements

The deviation at any carrier with respect to the Expected nominal UE TX
power (table 5.4.1A.3), derived in step 2) shall not exceed the
prescribed tolerance in table 5.4.1A.5.

Table 5.4.1A.5: Open loop power control tolerance per carrier

  -------------------- --------
  Normal conditions    ±10 dB
  Extreme conditions   ±13 dB
  -------------------- --------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

### 5.4.2 Inner Loop Power Control in the Uplink

Editor's notes: - For a transition period unti RAN5\#72, this test case
in version 12.3.0 of 34.121-1 shall be used.

#### 5.4.2.1 Definition and applicability

Inner loop power control in the uplink is the ability of the UE
transmitter to adjust its output power in accordance with one or more
TPC commands received in the downlink.

The power control step is the change in the UE transmitter output power
in response to a single TPC command, TPC\_cmd, derived at the UE.

This clause does not cover all the requirements of compressed mode or
soft handover.

The requirements and this test apply to all types of UTRA for the FDD
UE.

#### 5.4.2.2 Minimum requirements

The UE transmitter shall have the capability of changing the output
power with a step size of 1 dB, 2 dB and 3 dB according to the value of
∆TPC or ∆RP-TPC, in the slot immediately after the TPC\_cmd can be
derived.

a\) The transmitter output power step due to inner loop power control
shall be within the range shown in table 5.4.2.1.

b\) The transmitter aggregate output power step due to inner loop power
control shall be within the range shown in table 5.4.2.2. Here a
TPC\_cmd group is a set of TPC\_cmd values derived from a corresponding
sequence of TPC commands of the same duration.

The inner loop power step is defined as the relative power difference
between the mean power of the original (reference) timeslot and the mean
power of the target timeslot, not including the transient duration. The
transient duration is from 25 µs before the slot boundary to 25 µs after
the slot boundary.

Table 5.4.2.1: Transmitter power control range

  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------
  TPC\_cmd   Transmitter power control range (all units are in dB)                                                     
             1 dB step size                                          2 dB step size   3 dB step size                   
             Lower                                                   Upper            Lower            Upper   Lower   Upper
  +1         +0,5                                                    +1,5             +1               +3      +1,5    +4,5
  0          -0,5                                                    +0,5             -0,5             +0,5    -0,5    +0,5
  -1         -0,5                                                    -1,5             -1               -3      -1,5    -4,5
  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------

Table 5.4.2.1A: Transmitter power control range for exceptions

  ----------- --------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- --------- --------- ---------
  TPC\_ cmd   Transmitter power control range                                                         
              1 dB step size                    2 dB step size   3 dB step size                       
              Lower                             Upper            Lower            Upper     Lower     Upper
  \+ 1        -0.5 dB                           +2.5 dB          +0.5 dB          +3.5 dB   +1.5 dB   +4.5 dB
  0           -0.5 dB                           +0.5 dB          -0.5 dB          +0.5 dB   -0.5 dB   +0.5 dB
  -1          0.5 dB                            -2.5 dB          -0.5 dB          -3.5 dB   -1.5 dB   -4.5 dB
  ----------- --------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- --------- --------- ---------

Table 5.4.2.2: Transmitter aggregate power control tolerance

  ---------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------
  TPC\_cmd group   Transmitter power control range after 10 equal TPC\_cmd group\   Transmitter power control range after 7 equal TPC\_cmd groups\                                    
                   (all units are in dB)                                            (all units are in dB)                                                                             

                   1 dB step size                                                   2 dB step size                                                   3 dB step size                   

                   Lower                                                            Upper                                                            Lower            Upper   Lower   Upper

  +1               +8                                                               +12                                                              +16              +24     +16     +26

  0                -1                                                               +1                                                               -1               +1      -1      +1

  -1               -8                                                               -12                                                              -16              -24     -16     -26

  0,0,0,0,+1       +6                                                               +14                                                              N/A              N/A     N/A     N/A

  0,0,0,0,-1       -6                                                               -14                                                              N/A              N/A     N/A     N/A
  ---------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------

The UE shall meet the above requirements with the exceptions defined
below for inner loop power control over the power range bounded by the
Minimum output power as defined in clause 5.4.3.2, and the Maximum
output power supported by the UE (i.e. the actual power as would be
measured assuming no measurement error). This power shall be in the
range specified for the power class of the UE in clause 5.2.2. For each
direction, up to 2 exceptions to the transmitter power control range
defined in table 5.4.2.1 shall be allowed. The transmitter power control
range for exceptions is defined in table 5.4.2.1A.

NOTE: 3 dB inner loop power control steps are only used in compressed
mode.

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 6.4.2.1.1.

The requirements for the derivation of TPC\_cmd are detailed in TS
25.214 \[5\] clauses 5.1.2.2.2 and 5.1.2.2.3.

#### 5.4.2.3 Test purpose

\- To verify that the UE inner loop power control size and response is
meet to the described value shown in clause 5.4.2.2.

\- To verify that TPC\_cmd is correctly derived from received TPC
commands.

An excess error of the inner loop power control decreases the system
capacity.

The UE shall be tested for the requirements for inner loop power control
over the power range bounded by the Min power threshold for test and the
Max power threshold for test.

The Min power threshold for test is defined as the Minimum Output Power
Test Requirement (clause 5.4.3.5).

The Max power threshold for test is defined as the Measured Maximum
output power of the UE in the relevant Step of the test (using the same
method as in clause 5.2.4.2 step 2) minus the Test Tolerance specified
for test 5.2 Maximum Output Power in table F.2.1.

For the final power step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for
test, the lower step size requirement does not apply.

#### 5.4.2.4 Method of test

##### 5.4.2.4.1 Initial conditions {#initial-conditions-3 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.1.

2\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure
specified in TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.2, with the following
exception for information elements in RADIO BEARER SETUP message. With
this exception, the Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to
algorithm 2.

Table 5.4.2.4.1: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM

  ---------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element          **Value/Remark**
  CHOICE channel requirement   Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm   Algorithm 2
  ---------------------------- ------------------

3\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 5.4.2.4.2 Procedure {#procedure-3 .H6}

![](media/image2.wmf){width="5.531944444444444in" height="2.76875in"}

Figure 5.4.2.4 Inner Loop Power Control Test Steps

1\) Before proceeding with paragraph (2) (Step A) below, set the output
power of the UE to be in the range -10 ± 9 dBm. This may be achieved by
setting the downlink signal (Îor) to yield an appropriate open loop
output power and/or by generating suitable downlink TPC commands from
the SS.

2\) Step A: Transmit a sequence of at least 30 and no more than 60 TPC
commands, which shall commence at a frame boundary and last for a whole
number of frames, and which shall contain:

\- no sets of 5 consecutive \"0\" or \"1\" commands which commence in
the 1^st^, 6^th^ or 11^th^ slots of a frame;

\- at least one set of 5 consecutive \"0\" commands which does not
commence in the 1^st^, 6^th^ or 11^th^ slots of a frame;

\- at least one set of 5 consecutive \"1\" commands which does not
commence in the 1^st^, 6^th^ or 11^th^ slots of a frame.

> The following is an example of a suitable sequence of TPC commands:
>
> 100000101010101111101000001010101011111010000010101010111110

3\) Step B: Transmit a sequence of 50 TPC commands with the value 1.

4\) Step C: Transmit a sequence of 50 TPC commands with the value 0.

5\) Step D: Transmit the PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to
reconfigure the uplink channel in order to set the Power Control
Algorithm to algorithm 1, and the TPC step size to 1 dB. Contents of the
message is specified in the table 5.4.2.4.2.A. After the PHYSICAL
CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION COMPLETE message from the UE is received,
transmit a sequence of TPC commands with the value 1 until the UE output
power is above the maximum power threshold.

6\) Step E: Transmit a sequence of 150 (note 1) TPC commands with the
value 0.

7\) Step F: Transmit a sequence of 150 (note 1) TPC commands with the
value 1.

8\) Step G: Transmit the PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to
reconfigure the uplink channel in order to set the TPC step size to 2 dB
(with the Power Control Algorithm remaining as algorithm 1). Contents of
the message is specified in the table 5.4.2.4.2.B. After the PHYSICAL
CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION COMPLETE message from the UE is received,
transmit a sequence of TPC commands with the value 1 until the UE output
power is above the maximum power threshold. Transmit a sequence of 75
(note 1) TPC commands with the value 0.

9\) Step H: Transmit a sequence of 75 (note 1) TPC commands with the
value 1.

10\) During steps A to H the mean power of every slot shall be measured,
with the following exceptions:

\- In steps D and F, measurement of the mean power is not required in
slots after the 10^th^ slot after the mean power has exceeded the
maximum power threshold;

\- In steps E and G, measurement of the mean power is not required in
slots after the 10^th^ slot after the mean power has fallen below the
minimum power threshold.

The transient periods of 25 µs before each slot boundary and 25 µs after
each slot boundary shall not be included in the power measurements.

NOTE 1: These numbers of TPC commands are given as examples. The actual
number of TPC commands transmitted in these steps shall be at least 10
more than the number required to ensure that the UE reaches the relevant
maximum or minimum power threshold in each step, as shown in figure
5.4.2.4.

NOTE 2: In order to make it more practical to measure the entire power
control dynamic range (between min power threshold and max power
threshold with suitable margins), it is permissible to segment the power
control sequences into smaller subsequence. For example, Step-E can be
divided into different stages while still fulfilling the purpose of the
test to measure the entire dynamic range.

Table 5.4.2.4.2.A: PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message for step D
(step 5)

  -------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------
  Information Element                                Value/Remark                                                                                                                                                         Version
  Message Type                                                                                                                                                                                                            
  UE Information Elements                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  -RRC transaction identifier                        0                                                                                                                                                                    
  -Integrity check info                                                                                                                                                                                                   
  \- message authentication code                     SS calculates the value of MAC-I for this message and writes to this IE. The first/ leftmost bit of the bit string contains the most significant bit of the MAC-I.   
  \- RRC message sequence number                     SS provides the value of this IE, from its internal counter.                                                                                                         
  -Integrity protection mode info                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Ciphering mode info                               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Activation time                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -New U-RNTI                                        Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -New C-RNTI                                        Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -RRC State Indicator                               CELL\_DCH                                                                                                                                                            
  -UTRAN DRX cycle length coefficient                Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  CN Information Elements                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  -CN Information info                               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  UTRAN mobility information elements                                                                                                                                                                                     
  -URA identity                                      Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  RB information elements                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  -Downlink counter synchronisation info             Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  PhyCH information elements                                                                                                                                                                                              
  -Frequency info                                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  Uplink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Maximum allowed UL TX power                       Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -CHOICE channel requirement                        Uplink DPCH info                                                                                                                                                     
  -Uplink DPCH power control info                                                                                                                                                                                         
  -CHOICE mode                                       FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -DPCCH Power offset                                -40 (-80dB)                                                                                                                                                          
  -PC Preamble                                       1 frame                                                                                                                                                              
  -SRB delay                                         7 frames                                                                                                                                                             
  -Power Control Algorithm                           Algorithm 1                                                                                                                                                          
  -TPC step size                                     1dB                                                                                                                                                                  
  -CHOICE mode                                       FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Scrambling code type                              Long                                                                                                                                                                 
  -Scrambling code number                            0                                                                                                                                                                    
  -Number of DPDCH                                   1                                                                                                                                                                    
  -spreading factor                                  64                                                                                                                                                                   
  -TFCI existence                                    TRUE                                                                                                                                                                 
  -Number of FBI bits                                Not Present(0)                                                                                                                                                       
  -Puncturing Limit                                  1                                                                                                                                                                    
  Downlink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                                
  -CHOICE mode                                       FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Downlink PDSCH information                        Not Present                                                                                                                                                          R99 and Rel-4 only
  -Downlink information common for all radio links   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Downlink DPCH info common for all RL              Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------

Table 5.4.2.4.2.B: PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message for step G
(step 8)

  -------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------
  Information Element                                Value/Remark                                                                                                                                                         Version
  Message Type                                                                                                                                                                                                            
  UE Information Elements                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  -RRC transaction identifier                        0                                                                                                                                                                    
  -Integrity check info                                                                                                                                                                                                   
  \- message authentication code                     SS calculates the value of MAC-I for this message and writes to this IE. The first/ leftmost bit of the bit string contains the most significant bit of the MAC-I.   
  \- RRC message sequence number                     SS provides the value of this IE, from its internal counter.                                                                                                         
  -Integrity protection mode info                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Ciphering mode info                               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Activation time                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -New U-RNTI                                        Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -New C-RNTI                                        Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -RRC State Indicator                               CELL\_DCH                                                                                                                                                            
  -UTRAN DRX cycle length coefficient                Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  CN Information Elements                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  -CN Information info                               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  UTRAN mobility information elements                                                                                                                                                                                     
  -URA identity                                      Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  RB information elements                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  -Downlink counter synchronisation info             Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  PhyCH information elements                                                                                                                                                                                              
  -Frequency info                                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  Uplink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Maximum allowed UL TX power                       Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -CHOICE channel requirement                        Uplink DPCH info                                                                                                                                                     
  -Uplink DPCH power control info                                                                                                                                                                                         
  -CHOICE mode                                       FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -DPCCH Power offset                                -40 (-80dB)                                                                                                                                                          
  -PC Preamble                                       1 frame                                                                                                                                                              
  -SRB delay                                         7 frames                                                                                                                                                             
  -Power Control Algorithm                           Algorithm 1                                                                                                                                                          
  -TPC step size                                     2dB                                                                                                                                                                  
  -CHOICE mode                                       FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Scrambling code type                              Long                                                                                                                                                                 
  -Scrambling code number                            0                                                                                                                                                                    
  -Number of DPDCH                                   1                                                                                                                                                                    
  -spreading factor                                  64                                                                                                                                                                   
  -TFCI existence                                    TRUE                                                                                                                                                                 
  -Number of FBI bits                                Not Present(0)                                                                                                                                                       
  -Puncturing Limit                                  1                                                                                                                                                                    
  Downlink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                                
  -CHOICE mode                                       FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Downlink PDSCH information                        Not Present                                                                                                                                                          R99 and Rel-4 only
  -Downlink information common for all radio links   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Downlink DPCH info common for all RL              Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------

#### 5.4.2.5 Test requirements

Table 5.4.2.5.1: Transmitter power control range

  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------
  TPC\_cmd   Transmitter power control range (all units are in dB)                                                     
             1 dB step size                                          2 dB step size   3 dB step size                   
             Lower                                                   Upper            Lower            Upper   Lower   Upper
  +1         +0,4                                                    +1,6             +0,85            +3,15   +1,3    +4,7
  0          -0,6                                                    +0,6             -0,6             +0,6    -0,6    +0,6
  -1         -0,4                                                    -1,6             -0,85            -3,15   -1,3    -4,7
  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------

Table 5.4.2.5.1A: Transmitter power control range for exceptions

  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------
  TPC\_cmd   Transmitter power control range (all units are in dB)                                                     
             1 dB step size                                          2 dB step size   3 dB step size                   
             Lower                                                   Upper            Lower            Upper   Lower   Upper
  +1         -0.6                                                    +2,6             +0,35            +3,65   +1,3    +4,7
  0          -0,6                                                    +0,6             -0,6             +0,6    -0,6    +0,6
  -1         0.6                                                     -2,6             -0,35            -3,65   -1,3    -4,7
  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------

Table 5.4.2.5.2: Transmitter aggregate power control tolerance

  ---------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------
  TPC\_cmd group   Transmitter power control range after 10 equal TPC\_cmd group\   Transmitter power control range after 7 equal TPC\_cmd groups\                                    
                   (all units are in dB)                                            (all units are in dB)                                                                             

                   1 dB step size                                                   2 dB step size                                                   3 dB step size                   

                   Lower                                                            Upper                                                            Lower            Upper   Lower   Upper

  +1               +7,7                                                             +12,3                                                            +15,7            +24,3   +15,7   +26,3

  0                −1,1                                                             +1,1                                                             −1,1             +1,1    −1,1    +1,1

  −1               −7,7                                                             −12,3                                                            −15,7            −24,3   −15,7   −26,3

  0,0,0,0,+1       +5,7                                                             +14,3                                                            N/A              N/A     N/A     N/A

  0,0,0,0,−1       −5,7                                                             −14,3                                                            N/A              N/A     N/A     N/A
  ---------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------

a\) During Step A, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd of 0, as given in
table 5.4.2.5.1.

b\) During Step A, the change in mean power over 10 consecutive slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group of 0, as given
in table 5.4.2.5.2.

c\) During Step B, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
shall be within the prescribed range given in table 5.4.2.5.1, with up
to 2 exceptions are allowed as defined in table 5.4.2.5.1A, given that
every 5^th^ TPC\_cmd should have the value +1, with a step size of 1 dB,
and all other TPC\_cmd should have the value 0.

d\) During Step B, the change in mean power over 50 consecutive slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group of
{0,0,0,0,+1}, as given in table 5.4.2.5.2.

e\) During Step C, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
shall be within the prescribed range given in table 5.4.2.5.1, with up
to 2 exceptions are allowed as defined in table 5.4.2.5.1A, given that
every 5^th^ TPC\_cmd should have the value −1, with a step size of 1 dB,
and all other TPC\_cmd should have the value 0.

f\) During Step C, the change in mean power over 50 consecutive slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group of
{0,0,0,0,-1}, as given in table 5.4.2.5.2.

g\) During Step E, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
shall be within the prescribed range given in table 5.4.2.5.1 for a
TPC\_cmd of −1 and step size of 1 dB, with up to 2 exceptions are
allowed as defined in table 5.4.2.5.1A. This applies when the original
(reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are between the
Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for test
derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step D. For the power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test, the lower step
size requirement does not apply.

h\) During Step E, the change in mean power over 10 consecutive slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group of −1, and
step size of 1 dB as given in table 5.4.2.5.2. This applies when the
original (reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are
between the Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for
test derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step D. The power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test should not be
part of the 10 consecutive slots tested.

i\) During Step F, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
shall be within the prescribed range given in table 5.4.2.5.1 for a
TPC\_cmd of +1 and step size of 1 dB, with up to 2 exceptions are
allowed as defined in table 5.4.2.5.1A. This applies when the original
(reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are between the
Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for test
derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step F. For the power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test, the lower step
size requirement does not apply.

j\) During Step F, the change in mean power over 10 consecutive slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group of +1, and
step size of 1 dB as given in table 5.4.2.5.2. This applies when the
original (reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are
between the Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for
test derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step F. The power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test should not be
part of the 10 consecutive slots tested.

k\) During Step G, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
shall be within the prescribed range given in table 5.4.2.5.1 for a
TPC\_cmd of −1 and step size of 2 dB, with up to 2 exceptions are
allowed as defined in table 5.4.2.5.1A. This applies when the original
(reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are between the
Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for test
derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step F. For the power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test, the lower step
size requirement does not apply.

l\) During Step G, the change in mean power over 10 consecutive slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group of −1, and
step size of 2 dB as given in table 5.4.2.5.2. This applies when the
original (reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are
between the Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for
test derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step F. The power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test should not be
part of the 10 consecutive slots.

m\) During Step H, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
shall be within the prescribed range given in table 5.4.2.5.1 for a
TPC\_cmd of +1 and step size of 2 dB, with up to 2 exceptions are
allowed as defined in table 5.4.2.5.1A. This applies when the original
(reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are between the
Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for test
derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step H. For the power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test, the lower step
size requirement does not apply.

n\) During Step H, the change in mean power over 10 consecutive slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group of +1, and
step size of 2 dB as given in table 5.4.2.5.2. This applies when the
original (reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are
between the Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for
test derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step H. The power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test should not be
part of the 10 consecutive slots tested.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

### 5.4.2A Inner Loop Power Control in the Uplink for DC-HSUPA

\- Editor's notes: - For a transition period unti Ran5\#73, this test
case in version 12.3.0 of 34.121-1 shall be used.

#### 5.4.2A.1 Definition and applicability

Inner loop power control in the uplink for DC-HSUPA is the ability of
the UE transmitter to adjust its output power, on each uplink carrier,
in accordance with one or more TPC commands received in the downlink.

The power control step is the change in the UE transmitter output power
in response to a single TPC command, TPC\_cmd, derived at the UE.

This clause does not cover all the requirements of compressed mode or
soft handover.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 9 and later releases
for the FDD UE that supports HSDPA and Dual Cell E-DCH.

#### 5.4.2A.2 Minimum requirements

The UE transmitter shall have the capability of changing the output
power in each assigned carrier in the uplink with a step size of 1, 2
and 3 dB according to the value of ∆~TPC~ or ∆~RP-TPC~, in the slot
immediately after the TPC\_cmd for the corresponding carrier as follows

a\) The transmitter output power step due to inner loop power control in
each assigned carrier in the uplink shall be within the range shown in
Table 5.4.2A.1, when the total transmit power in each of the assigned
carriers is equal to each other.

b\) The transmitter average output power step due to inner loop power
control in each assigned carrier in the uplink shall be within the range
shown in Table 5.4.2A.2, when the total transmit power in each of the
assigned carriers is equal to each other. Here a TPC\_cmd group is a set
of TPC\_cmd values derived from a corresponding sequence of TPC commands
of the same duration.

c\) The requirements can be tested by sending the same TPC commands for
each of the assigned carriers, assuming that the signal powers for the
carriers (in terms of DPCCH code power and total power) have been
aligned prior to the beginning of the test procedure.

The inner loop power step is defined as the relative power difference
between the mean power of the original (reference) timeslot and the mean
power of the target timeslot in each carrier, not including the
transient duration. The transient duration is from 25μs before the slot
boundary to 25μs after the slot boundary.

Table 5.4.2A.1: Transmitter power control range

  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------
  TPC\_cmd   Transmitter power control range (all units are in dB)                                                     
             1 dB step size                                          2 dB step size   3 dB step size                   
             Lower                                                   Upper            Lower            Upper   Lower   Upper
  +1         +0,5                                                    +1,5             +1               +3      +1,5    +4,5
  0          −0,5                                                    +0,5             −0,5             +0,5    −0,5    +0,5
  −1         −0,5                                                    −1,5             −1               −3      −1,5    −4,5
  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------

Table 5.4.2A.1A: Transmitter power control range for exceptions

  ----------- --------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- --------- --------- ---------
  TPC\_ cmd   Transmitter power control range                                                         
              1 dB step size                    2 dB step size   3 dB step size                       
              Lower                             Upper            Lower            Upper     Lower     Upper
  \+ 1        -0.5 dB                           +2.5 dB          +0.5 dB          +3.5 dB   +1.5 dB   +4.5 dB
  0           -0.5 dB                           +0.5 dB          -0.5 dB          +0.5 dB   -0.5 dB   +0.5 dB
  -1          0.5 dB                            -2.5 dB          -0.5 dB          -3.5 dB   -1.5 dB   -4.5 dB
  ----------- --------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- --------- --------- ---------

Table 5.4.2A.2: Transmitter aggregate power control tolerance

  ---------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------
  TPC\_cmd group   Transmitter power control range after 10 equal TPC\_cmd group\   Transmitter power control range after 7 equal TPC\_cmd groups\                                    
                   (all units are in dB)                                            (all units are in dB)                                                                             

                   1 dB step size                                                   2 dB step size                                                   3 dB step size                   

                   Lower                                                            Upper                                                            Lower            Upper   Lower   Upper

  +1               +8                                                               +12                                                              +16              +24     +16     +26

  0                −1                                                               +1                                                               −1               +1      −1      +1

  −1               −8                                                               −12                                                              −16              −24     −16     −26

  0,0,0,0,+1       +6                                                               +14                                                              N/A              N/A     N/A     N/A

  0,0,0,0,−1       −6                                                               −14                                                              N/A              N/A     N/A     N/A
  ---------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------

The UE shall meet the above requirements with the exceptions defined
below for inner loop power control over the power range bounded by the
Minimum output power as defined in clause 5.4.3.2, and the Maximum
output power supported by the UE (i.e. the actual power as would be
measured assuming no measurement error). This power shall be in the
range specified for the power class of the UE in clause 5.2.2. For each
direction, up to 2 exceptions to the transmitter power control range
defined in table 5.4.2.1 shall be allowed. The transmitter power control
range for exceptions is defined in table 5.4.2A.1A.

NOTE: 3 dB inner loop power control steps are only used in compressed
mode.

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 6.4.2.1.1A.

The requirements for the derivation of TPC\_cmd are detailed in TS
25.214 \[5\] clauses 5.1.2.2.2 and 5.1.2.2.3.

#### 5.4.2A.3 Test purpose

\- To verify that the UE inner loop power control size and response, on
each carrier, is met to the described value shown in clause 5.4.2A.2.

\- To verify that TPC\_cmd is correctly derived from received TPC
commands.

An excess error of the inner loop power control decreases the system
capacity.

The UE shall be tested for the requirements for inner loop power control
for DC-HSUPA over the power range bounded by the Min power threshold for
test and the Max power threshold for test.

The Min power threshold for test is defined as the Minimum Output Power
Test Requirement for DC-HSUPA (clause 5.4.3A.5).

The Max power threshold for test is defined as the Measured Maximum
output power for DC-HSUPA of the UE in the relevant Step of the test
(using the same method as in clause 5.2BA.4.2 with the exception that
only configuration \#3 from table 5.2BA.5A is applied) minus the Test
Tolerance specified for test 5.2BA Maximum Output Power for DC-HSUPA in
table F.2.1.

For the final power step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for
test, the lower step size requirement does not apply.

#### 5.4.2A.4 Method of test

##### 5.4.2A.4.1 Initial conditions {#a.4.1-initial-conditions-3 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.41.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and parameters are specified in
Annex C.2.6 and C.11A.1.1. The DL Reference Measurement Channel (FRC
H-SET 3A, QPSK) is specified in C.8.1.1.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure
specified in TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.14, with the following
exception for information elements in RADIO BEARER SETUP message. With
this exception, the Power Control Algorithm for each carrier in the
Uplink is set to algorithm 2.

Table 5.4.2A.4.1: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM

  ---------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element          **Value/Remark**
  CHOICE channel requirement   Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm   Algorithm 2
  ---------------------------- ------------------

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 5.4.2A.4.2 Procedure {#a.4.2-procedure-3 .H6}

![](media/image2.wmf){width="5.531944444444444in" height="2.76875in"}

Figure 5.4.2A.4 Inner Loop Power Control Test Steps

1\) Before proceeding with paragraph (2) (Step A) below, set the output
power of the assigned carriers equal to each other within ± 1.7 dB and
in the range -10 ± 9 dBm. This may be achieved by generating suitable
downlink TPC commands from the SS.

2\) Step A: Transmit a sequence of at least 30 and no more than 60 TPC
commands on both cells, which shall commence at a frame boundary and
last for a whole number of frames, and which shall contain:

\- no sets of 5 consecutive \"0\" or \"1\" commands which commence in
the 1^st^, 6^th^ or 11^th^ slots of a frame;

\- at least one set of 5 consecutive \"0\" commands which does not
commence in the 1^st^, 6^th^ or 11^th^ slots of a frame;

\- at least one set of 5 consecutive \"1\" commands which does not
commence in the 1^st^, 6^th^ or 11^th^ slots of a frame.

> The following is an example of a suitable sequence of TPC commands:
>
> 100000101010101111101000001010101011111010000010101010111110

3\) Step B: Transmit a sequence of 50 TPC commands with the value 1.

4\) Step C: Transmit a sequence of 50 TPC commands with the value 0.

5\) Step D: Transmit the PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to
reconfigure the uplink channel, in order to set the Power Control
Algorithm to algorithm 1, and the TPC step size to 1 dB. Contents of the
information elements are as specified in TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause
7.3.14.4.2 with the exception as specified in the table 5.4.2A.4.2.A.
After the PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION COMPLETE message from the UE
is received, transmit a sequence of TPC commands with the value 1 until
the UE output power is above the maximum power threshold.

6\) Step E: Transmit a sequence of 150 (note 1) TPC commands with the
value 0.

7\) Step F: Transmit a sequence of 150 (note 1) TPC commands with the
value 1.

8\) Step G: Transmit the PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to
reconfigure the uplink channel, in order to set the TPC step size to 2
dB (with the Power Control Algorithm remaining as algorithm 1). Contents
of the information elements are as specified in TS34.108 \[3\] sub
clause 7.3.14.4.2 with the exception as specified in the table
5.4.2A.4.2.B. After the PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION COMPLETE
message from the UE is received, transmit a sequence of TPC commands
with the value 1 until the UE output power is above the maximum power
threshold. Transmit a sequence of 75 (note 1) TPC commands with the
value 0.

9\) Step H: Transmit a sequence of 75 (note 1) TPC commands with the
value 1.

10\) During steps A to H the mean power of every slot on each carrier
shall be measured, with the following exceptions:

\- In steps D and F, measurement of the mean power is not required in
slots after the 10^th^ slot after the mean power has exceeded the
maximum power threshold;

\- In steps E and G, measurement of the mean power is not required in
slots after the 10^th^ slot after the mean power has fallen below the
minimum power threshold.

The transient periods of 25 µs before each slot boundary and 25 µs after
each slot boundary shall not be included in the power measurements.

NOTE 1: These numbers of TPC commands are given as examples. The actual
number of TPC commands transmitted in these steps shall be at least 10
more than the number required to ensure that each carrier reaches the
relevant maximum or minimum power threshold in each step, as shown in
figure 5.4.2A.4.

NOTE 2: In order to make it more practical to measure the entire power
control dynamic range (between min power threshold and max power
threshold with suitable margins), it is permissible to segment the power
control sequences into smaller subsequence. For example, Step-E can be
divided into different stages while still fulfilling the purpose of the
test to measure the entire dynamic range.

Table 5.4.2A.4.2.A: PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message for step D
(step 5)

+----------------------------+------------------+
| Information Element        | **Value/Remark** |
+----------------------------+------------------+
| CHOICE channel requirement | Uplink DPCH info |
+----------------------------+------------------+
| \- Power Control Algorithm | Algorithm 1      |
|                            |                  |
| \- TPC step size           | 1 dB             |
+----------------------------+------------------+

Table 5.4.2A.4.2.B: PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message for step G
(step 8)

  ---------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element          **Value/Remark**
  CHOICE channel requirement   Uplink DPCH info
  \- TPC step size             2 dB
  ---------------------------- ------------------

#### 5.4.2A.5 Test requirements

Table 5.4.2A.5.1: Transmitter power control range

  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------
  TPC\_cmd   Transmitter power control range (all units are in dB)                                                     
             1 dB step size                                          2 dB step size   3 dB step size                   
             Lower                                                   Upper            Lower            Upper   Lower   Upper
  +1         +0,4                                                    +1,6             +0,85            +3,15   +1,3    +4,7
  0          −0,6                                                    +0,6             −0,6             +0,6    −0,6    +0,6
  −1         −0,4                                                    −1,6             −0,85            −3,15   −1,3    −4,7
  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------

Table 5.4.2A.5.1A: Transmitter power control range for exceptions

  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------
  TPC\_cmd   Transmitter power control range (all units are in dB)                                                     
             1 dB step size                                          2 dB step size   3 dB step size                   
             Lower                                                   Upper            Lower            Upper   Lower   Upper
  +1         -0.6                                                    +2,6             +0,35            +3,65   +1,3    +4,7
  0          -0,6                                                    +0,6             -0,6             +0,6    -0,6    +0,6
  -1         0.6                                                     -2,6             -0,35            -3,65   -1,3    -4,7
  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------

Table 5.4.2A.5.2: Transmitter aggregate power control tolerance

  ---------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------
  TPC\_cmd group   Transmitter power control range after 10 equal TPC\_cmd group\   Transmitter power control range after 7 equal TPC\_cmd groups\                                    
                   (all units are in dB)                                            (all units are in dB)                                                                             

                   1 dB step size                                                   2 dB step size                                                   3 dB step size                   

                   Lower                                                            Upper                                                            Lower            Upper   Lower   Upper

  +1               +7,7                                                             +12,3                                                            +15,7            +24,3   +15,7   +26,3

  0                −1,1                                                             +1,1                                                             −1,1             +1,1    −1,1    +1,1

  −1               −7,7                                                             −12,3                                                            −15,7            −24,3   −15,7   −26,3

  0,0,0,0,+1       +5,7                                                             +14,3                                                            N/A              N/A     N/A     N/A

  0,0,0,0,−1       −5,7                                                             −14,3                                                            N/A              N/A     N/A     N/A
  ---------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------

a\) During Step A, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
on each carrier shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd of
0, as given in table 5.4.2A.5.1.

b\) During Step A, the change in mean power over 10 consecutive slots on
each carrier shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group
of 0, as given in table 5.4.2A.5.2.

c\) During Step B, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
on each carrier shall be within the prescribed range given in table
5.4.2A.5.1, with up to 2 exceptions are allowed as defined in table
5.4.2A.5.1A, given that every 5^th^ TPC\_cmd should have the value +1,
with a step size of 1 dB, and all other TPC\_cmd should have the value
0.

d\) During Step B, the change in mean power over 50 consecutive slots on
each carrier shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group
of {0,0,0,0,+1}, as given in table 5.4.2A.5.2.

e\) During Step C, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
on each carrier shall be within the prescribed range given in table
5.4.2A.5.1, with up to 2 exceptions are allowed as defined in table
5.4.2A.5.1A, given that every 5^th^ TPC\_cmd should have the value −1,
with a step size of 1 dB, and all other TPC\_cmd should have the value
0.

f\) During Step C, the change in mean power over 50 consecutive slots on
each carrier shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group
of {0,0,0,0,-1}, as given in table 5.4.2A.5.2.

g\) During Step E, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
on each carrier shall be within the prescribed range given in table
5.4.2A.5.1 for a TPC\_cmd of −1 and step size of 1 dB with up to 2
exceptions are allowed as defined in table 5.4.2A.5.1A. This applies
when the original (reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot
power are between the Min power threshold for test and the Max power
threshold for test derived from the Measured Maximum output power in
Step D. For the power step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold
for test, the lower step size requirement does not apply.

h\) During Step E, the change in mean power over 10 consecutive slots on
each carrier shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group
of −1, and step size of 1 dB as given in table 5.4.2A.5.2. This applies
when the original (reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot
power are between the Min power threshold for test and the Max power
threshold for test derived from the Measured Maximum output power in
Step D. The power step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for
test should not be part of the 10 consecutive slots tested.

i\) During Step F, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
on each carrier shall be within the prescribed range given in table
5.4.2A.5.1 for a TPC\_cmd of +1 and step size of 1 dB with up to 2
exceptions are allowed as defined in table 5.4.2A.5.1A. This applies
when the original (reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot
power are between the Min power threshold for test and the Max power
threshold for test derived from the Measured Maximum output power in
Step F. For the power step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold
for test, the lower step size requirement does not apply.

j\) During Step F, the change in mean power over 10 consecutive slots on
each carrier shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group
of +1, and step size of 1 dB as given in table 5.4.2A.5.2. This applies
when the original (reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot
power are between the Min power threshold for test and the Max power
threshold for test derived from the Measured Maximum output power in
Step F. The power step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for
test should not be part of the 10 consecutive slots tested.

k\) During Step G, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
on each carrier shall be within the prescribed range given in table
5.4.2A.5.1 for a TPC\_cmd of −1 and step size of 2 dB with up to 2
exceptions are allowed as defined in table 5.4.2A.5.1A. This applies
when the original (reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot
power are between the Min power threshold for test and the Max power
threshold for test derived from the Measured Maximum output power in
Step F. For the power step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold
for test, the lower step size requirement does not apply.

l\) During Step G, the change in mean power over 10 consecutive slots on
each carrier shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group
of −1, and step size of 2 dB as given in table 5.4.2A.5.2. This applies
when the original (reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot
power are between the Min power threshold for test and the Max power
threshold for test derived from the Measured Maximum output power in
Step F. The power step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for
test should not be part of the 10 consecutive slots.

m\) During Step H, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
on each carrier shall be within the prescribed range given in table
5.4.2A.5.1 for a TPC\_cmd of +1 and step size of 2 dB with up to 2
exceptions are allowed as defined in table 5.4.2A.5.1A. This applies
when the original (reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot
power are between the Min power threshold for test and the Max power
threshold for test derived from the Measured Maximum output power in
Step H. For the power step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold
for test, the lower step size requirement does not apply.

n\) During Step H, the change in mean power over 10 consecutive slots on
each carrier shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group
of +1, and step size of 2 dB as given in table 5.4.2A.5.2. This applies
when the original (reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot
power are between the Min power threshold for test and the Max power
threshold for test derived from the Measured Maximum output power in
Step H. The power step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for
test should not be part of the 10 consecutive slots tested.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

### 5.4.2B Inner Loop Power Control in the Uplink for OLTD

Editor's note: This clause is incomplete. The following aspects are
either missing or not yet determined:

\- Uplink Reference Measurement Channel is TBD.

\- For a transition period unti Ran5\#73, this test case in version
12.3.0 of 34.121-1 shall be used.

#### 5.4.2B.1 Definition and applicability

Inner loop power control in the uplink is the ability of the UE
transmitter to adjust its output power in accordance with one or more
TPC commands received in the downlink.

The power control step is the change in the UE transmitter output power
in response to a single TPC command, TPC\_cmd, derived at the UE.

This clause does not cover all the requirements of compressed mode or
soft handover.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL OLTD.

#### 5.4.2B.2 Minimum requirements

The UE transmitter shall have the capability of changing the output
power with a step size of 1 dB, 2 dB and 3 dB according to the value of
TPC or RP-TPC, in the slot immediately after the TPC\_cmd can be
derived.

a\) The transmitter output power step due to inner loop power control
shall be within the range shown in table 5.4.2B.1.

b\) The transmitter aggregate output power step due to inner loop power
control shall be within the range shown in table 5.4.2B.2. Here a
TPC\_cmd group is a set of TPC\_cmd values derived from a corresponding
sequence of TPC commands of the same duration.

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL OLTD, the inner
loop power control in the uplink specified in this clause applies at
each transmit antenna connector.

The inner loop power step is defined as the relative power difference
between the mean power of the original (reference) timeslot and the mean
power of the target timeslot, not including the transient duration. The
transient duration is from 25 µs before the slot boundary to 25 µs after
the slot boundary.

Table 5.4.2B.1: Transmitter power control range

  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------
  TPC\_cmd   Transmitter power control range (all units are in dB)                                                     
             1 dB step size                                          2 dB step size   3 dB step size                   
             Lower                                                   Upper            Lower            Upper   Lower   Upper
  +1         +0,5                                                    +1,5             +1               +3      +1,5    +4,5
  0          -0,5                                                    +0,5             -0,5             +0,5    -0,5    +0,5
  -1         -0,5                                                    -1,5             -1               -3      -1,5    -4,5
  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------

Table 5.4.2B.1A: Transmitter power control range for exceptions

  ----------- --------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- --------- --------- ---------
  TPC\_ cmd   Transmitter power control range                                                         
              1 dB step size                    2 dB step size   3 dB step size                       
              Lower                             Upper            Lower            Upper     Lower     Upper
  \+ 1        -0.5 dB                           +2.5 dB          +0.5 dB          +3.5 dB   +1.5 dB   +4.5 dB
  0           -0.5 dB                           +0.5 dB          -0.5 dB          +0.5 dB   -0.5 dB   +0.5 dB
  -1          0.5 dB                            -2.5 dB          -0.5 dB          -3.5 dB   -1.5 dB   -4.5 dB
  ----------- --------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- --------- --------- ---------

Table 5.4.2B.2: Transmitter aggregate power control tolerance

  ---------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------
  TPC\_cmd group   Transmitter power control range after 10 equal TPC\_cmd group\   Transmitter power control range after 7 equal TPC\_cmd groups\                                    
                   (all units are in dB)                                            (all units are in dB)                                                                             

                   1 dB step size                                                   2 dB step size                                                   3 dB step size                   

                   Lower                                                            Upper                                                            Lower            Upper   Lower   Upper

  +1               +8                                                               +12                                                              +16              +24     +16     +26

  0                -1                                                               +1                                                               -1               +1      -1      +1

  -1               -8                                                               -12                                                              -16              -24     -16     -26

  0,0,0,0,+1       +6                                                               +14                                                              N/A              N/A     N/A     N/A

  0,0,0,0,-1       -6                                                               -14                                                              N/A              N/A     N/A     N/A
  ---------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------

The UE shall meet the above requirements, with the exceptions defined
below for inner loop power control over the power range bounded by the
Minimum output power as defined in clause 5.4.3.2, and the Maximum
output power supported by the UE (i.e. the actual power as would be
measured assuming no measurement error). This power shall be in the
range specified for the power class of the UE in clause 5.2.2. For each
direction, up to 2 exceptions to the transmitter power control range
defined in table 5.4.2.1 shall be allowed. The transmitter power control
range for exceptions is defined in table 5.4.2B.1A.

NOTE: 3 dB inner loop power control steps are only used in compressed
mode.

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 6.4.2.1.1B.

The requirements for the derivation of TPC\_cmd are detailed in TS
25.214 \[5\] clauses 5.1.2.2.2 and 5.1.2.2.3.

#### 5.4.2B.3 Test purpose

\- To verify that the UE inner loop power control size and response with
UL OLTD is meet to the described value shown in clause 5.4.2B.2.

\- To verify that TPC\_cmd is correctly derived from received TPC
commands.

An excess error of the inner loop power control decreases the system
capacity.

The UE shall be tested for the requirements for inner loop power control
over the power range bounded by the Min power threshold for test and the
Max power threshold for test.

The Min power threshold for test is defined as the Minimum Output Power
Test Requirement (clause 5.4.3.5).

The Max power threshold for test is defined as the Measured Maximum
output power of the UE in the relevant Step of the test (using the same
method as in clause 5.2.4.2 step 2) minus the Test Tolerance specified
for test 5.2 Maximum Output Power in table F.2.1.

For the final power step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for
test, the lower step size requirement does not apply.

#### 5.4.2B.4 Method of test

##### 5.4.2B.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.52.

2\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure
specified in TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.18, with the following
exception for information elements in RADIO BEARER SETUP message. With
this exception, the Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to
algorithm 2.

Table 5.4.2B.4.1: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM

  ---------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element          **Value/Remark**
  CHOICE channel requirement   Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm   Algorithm 2
  ---------------------------- ------------------

3\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 5.4.2B.4.2 Procedure

![](media/image2.wmf){width="5.531944444444444in"
height="2.770138888888889in"}

Figure 5.4.2B.4: Inner Loop Power Control Test Steps

1\) Before proceeding with paragraph (2) (Step A) below, set the output
power of the UE to be in the range -10 ± 9 dBm. This may be achieved by
setting the downlink signal (Îor) to yield an appropriate open loop
output power and/or by generating suitable downlink TPC commands from
the SS.

2\) Step A: Transmit a sequence of at least 30 and no more than 60 TPC
commands, which shall commence at a frame boundary and last for a whole
number of frames, and which shall contain:

\- no sets of 5 consecutive \"0\" or \"1\" commands which commence in
the 1^st^, 6^th^ or 11^th^ slots of a frame;

\- at least one set of 5 consecutive \"0\" commands which does not
commence in the 1^st^, 6^th^ or 11^th^ slots of a frame;

\- at least one set of 5 consecutive \"1\" commands which does not
commence in the 1^st^, 6^th^ or 11^th^ slots of a frame.

> The following is an example of a suitable sequence of TPC commands:
>
> 100000101010101111101000001010101011111010000010101010111110

3\) Step B: Transmit a sequence of 50 TPC commands with the value 1.

4\) Step C: Transmit a sequence of 50 TPC commands with the value 0.

5\) Step D: Transmit the PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to
reconfigure the uplink channel in order to set the Power Control
Algorithm to algorithm 1, and the TPC step size to 1 dB. Contents of the
message is specified in the table 5.4.2B.4.2.A. After the PHYSICAL
CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION COMPLETE message from the UE is received,
transmit a sequence of TPC commands with the value 1 until the UE output
power is above the maximum power threshold.

6\) Step E: Transmit a sequence of 150 (note 1) TPC commands with the
value 0.

7\) Step F: Transmit a sequence of 150 (note 1) TPC commands with the
value 1.

8\) Step G: Transmit the PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to
reconfigure the uplink channel in order to set the TPC step size to 2 dB
(with the Power Control Algorithm remaining as algorithm 1). Contents of
the message is specified in the table 5.4.2B.4.2.B. After the PHYSICAL
CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION COMPLETE message from the UE is received,
transmit a sequence of TPC commands with the value 1 until the UE output
power is above the maximum power threshold. Transmit a sequence of 75
(note 1) TPC commands with the value 0.

9\) Step H: Transmit a sequence of 75 (note 1) TPC commands with the
value 1.

10\) During steps A to H the mean power of every slot shall be measured,
with the following exceptions:

\- In steps D and F, measurement of the mean power is not required in
slots after the 10^th^ slot after the mean power has exceeded the
maximum power threshold;

\- In steps E and G, measurement of the mean power is not required in
slots after the 10^th^ slot after the mean power has fallen below the
minimum power threshold.

The transient periods of 25 µs before each slot boundary and 25 µs after
each slot boundary shall not be included in the power measurements.

NOTE 1: These numbers of TPC commands are given as examples. The actual
number of TPC commands transmitted in these steps shall be at least 10
more than the number required to ensure that the UE reaches the relevant
maximum or minimum power threshold in each step, as shown in figure
5.4.2B.4.

NOTE 2: In order to make it more practical to measure the entire power
control dynamic range (between min power threshold and max power
threshold with suitable margins), it is permissible to segment the power
control sequences into smaller subsequence. For example, Step-E can be
divided into different stages while still fulfilling the purpose of the
test to measure the entire dynamic range.

Table 5.4.2B.4.2.A: PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message for step D
(step 5)

  -------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------
  Information Element                                Value/Remark                                                                                                                                                         Version
  Message Type                                                                                                                                                                                                            
  UE Information Elements                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  -RRC transaction identifier                        0                                                                                                                                                                    
  -Integrity check info                                                                                                                                                                                                   
  \- message authentication code                     SS calculates the value of MAC-I for this message and writes to this IE. The first/ leftmost bit of the bit string contains the most significant bit of the MAC-I.   
  \- RRC message sequence number                     SS provides the value of this IE, from its internal counter.                                                                                                         
  -Integrity protection mode info                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Ciphering mode info                               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Activation time                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -New U-RNTI                                        Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -New C-RNTI                                        Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -RRC State Indicator                               CELL\_DCH                                                                                                                                                            
  -UTRAN DRX cycle length coefficient                Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  CN Information Elements                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  -CN Information info                               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  UTRAN mobility information elements                                                                                                                                                                                     
  -URA identity                                      Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  RB information elements                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  -Downlink counter synchronisation info             Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  PhyCH information elements                                                                                                                                                                                              
  -Frequency info                                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  Uplink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Maximum allowed UL TX power                       Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -CHOICE channel requirement                        Uplink DPCH info                                                                                                                                                     
  -Uplink DPCH power control info                                                                                                                                                                                         
  -CHOICE mode                                       FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -DPCCH Power offset                                -40 (-80dB)                                                                                                                                                          
  -PC Preamble                                       1 frame                                                                                                                                                              
  -SRB delay                                         7 frames                                                                                                                                                             
  -Power Control Algorithm                           Algorithm 1                                                                                                                                                          
  -TPC step size                                     1dB                                                                                                                                                                  
  -CHOICE mode                                       FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Scrambling code type                              Long                                                                                                                                                                 
  -Scrambling code number                            0                                                                                                                                                                    
  -Number of DPDCH                                   1                                                                                                                                                                    
  -spreading factor                                  64                                                                                                                                                                   
  -TFCI existence                                    TRUE                                                                                                                                                                 
  -Number of FBI bits                                Not Present(0)                                                                                                                                                       
  -Puncturing Limit                                  1                                                                                                                                                                    
  Downlink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                                
  -CHOICE mode                                       FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Downlink PDSCH information                        Not Present                                                                                                                                                          R99 and Rel-4 only
  -Downlink information common for all radio links   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Downlink DPCH info common for all RL              Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------

Table 5.4.2B.4.2.B: PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message for step G
(step 8)

  -------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------
  Information Element                                Value/Remark                                                                                                                                                         Version
  Message Type                                                                                                                                                                                                            
  UE Information Elements                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  -RRC transaction identifier                        0                                                                                                                                                                    
  -Integrity check info                                                                                                                                                                                                   
  \- message authentication code                     SS calculates the value of MAC-I for this message and writes to this IE. The first/ leftmost bit of the bit string contains the most significant bit of the MAC-I.   
  \- RRC message sequence number                     SS provides the value of this IE, from its internal counter.                                                                                                         
  -Integrity protection mode info                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Ciphering mode info                               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Activation time                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -New U-RNTI                                        Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -New C-RNTI                                        Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -RRC State Indicator                               CELL\_DCH                                                                                                                                                            
  -UTRAN DRX cycle length coefficient                Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  CN Information Elements                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  -CN Information info                               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  UTRAN mobility information elements                                                                                                                                                                                     
  -URA identity                                      Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  RB information elements                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  -Downlink counter synchronisation info             Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  PhyCH information elements                                                                                                                                                                                              
  -Frequency info                                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  Uplink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Maximum allowed UL TX power                       Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -CHOICE channel requirement                        Uplink DPCH info                                                                                                                                                     
  -Uplink DPCH power control info                                                                                                                                                                                         
  -CHOICE mode                                       FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -DPCCH Power offset                                -40 (-80dB)                                                                                                                                                          
  -PC Preamble                                       1 frame                                                                                                                                                              
  -SRB delay                                         7 frames                                                                                                                                                             
  -Power Control Algorithm                           Algorithm 1                                                                                                                                                          
  -TPC step size                                     2BB                                                                                                                                                                  
  -CHOICE mode                                       FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Scrambling code type                              Long                                                                                                                                                                 
  -Scrambling code number                            0                                                                                                                                                                    
  -Number of DPDCH                                   1                                                                                                                                                                    
  -spreading factor                                  64                                                                                                                                                                   
  -TFCI existence                                    TRUE                                                                                                                                                                 
  -Number of FBI bits                                Not Present(0)                                                                                                                                                       
  -Puncturing Limit                                  1                                                                                                                                                                    
  Downlink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                                
  -CHOICE mode                                       FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Downlink PDSCH information                        Not Present                                                                                                                                                          R99 and Rel-4 only
  -Downlink information common for all radio links   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Downlink DPCH info common for all RL              Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------

#### 5.4.2B.5 Test requirements

Table 5.4.2B.5.1: Transmitter power control range

  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ---------- ---------- ----------
  TPC\_cmd   Transmitter power control range (all units are in dB)                                                           
             1 dB step size                                          2 dB step size   3 dB step size                         
             Lower                                                   Upper            Lower            Upper      Lower      Upper
  +1         +0,5± TT                                                +1,5± TT         +1± TT           +3± TT     +1,5± TT   +4,5± TT
  0          -0,5± TT                                                +0,5± TT         -0,5± TT         +0,5± TT   -0,5± TT   +0,5± TT
  -1         -0,5± TT                                                -1,5± TT         -1± TT           -3± TT     -1,5± TT   -4,5± TT
  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ---------- ---------- ----------

Table 5.4.2B.5.1A: Transmitter power control range for exceptions

  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------
  TPC\_cmd   Transmitter power control range (all units are in dB)                                                     
             1 dB step size                                          2 dB step size   3 dB step size                   
             Lower                                                   Upper            Lower            Upper   Lower   Upper
  +1         -0.6                                                    +2,6             +0,35            +3,65   +1,3    +4,7
  0          -0,6                                                    +0,6             -0,6             +0,6    -0,6    +0,6
  -1         0.6                                                     -2,6             -0,35            -3,65   -1,3    -4,7
  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------

Table 5.4.2B.5.2: Transmitter aggregate power control tolerance

  ---------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- -------- -------- --------
  TPC\_cmd group   Transmitter power control range after 10 equal TPC\_cmd group\   Transmitter power control range after 7 equal TPC\_cmd groups\                                      
                   (all units are in dB)                                            (all units are in dB)                                                                               

                   1 dB step size                                                   2 dB step size                                                   3 dB step size                     

                   Lower                                                            Upper                                                            Lower            Upper    Lower    Upper

  +1               +8±TT                                                            +12±TT                                                           +16±TT           +24±TT   +16±TT   +26±TT

  0                −1±TT                                                            +1±TT                                                            −1±TT            +1±TT    −1±TT    +1±TT

  −1               −8±TT                                                            −12±TT                                                           −16±TT           −24±TT   −16±TT   −26±TT

  0,0,0,0,+1       +6±TT                                                            +14±TT                                                           N/A              N/A      N/A      N/A

  0,0,0,0,−1       −6±TT                                                            −14±TT                                                           N/A              N/A      N/A      N/A
  ---------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- -------- -------- --------

a\) During Step A, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd of 0, as given in
table 5.4.2B.5.1.

b\) During Step A, the change in mean power over 10 consecutive slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group of 0, as given
in table 5.4.2B.5.2.

c\) During Step B, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
shall be within the prescribed range given in table 5.4.2B.5.1, with up
to 2 exceptions are allowed as defined in table 5.4.2B.5.1A, given that
every 5^th^ TPC\_cmd should have the value +1, with a step size of 1 dB,
and all other TPC\_cmd should have the value 0.

d\) During Step B, the change in mean power over 50 consecutive slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group of
{0,0,0,0,+1}, as given in table 5.4.2B.5.2.

e\) During Step C, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
shall be within the prescribed range given in table 5.4.2B.5.1, with up
to 2 exceptions are allowed as defined in table 5.4.2B.5.1A, given that
every 5^th^ TPC\_cmd should have the value −1, with a step size of 1 dB,
and all other TPC\_cmd should have the value 0.

f\) During Step C, the change in mean power over 50 consecutive slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group of
{0,0,0,0,-1}, as given in table 5.4.2B.5.2.

g\) During Step E, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
shall be within the prescribed range given in table 5.4.2B.5.1 for a
TPC\_cmd of −1 and step size of 1 dB with up to 2 exceptions are allowed
as defined in table 5.4.2B.5.1A. This applies when the original
(reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are between the
Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for test
derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step D. For the power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test, the lower step
size requirement does not apply.

h\) During Step E, the change in mean power over 10 consecutive slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group of −1, and
step size of 1 dB as given in table 5.4.2B.5.2. This applies when the
original (reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are
between the Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for
test derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step D. The power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test should not be
part of the 10 consecutive slots tested.

i\) During Step F, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
shall be within the prescribed range given in table 5.4.2B.5.1 for a
TPC\_cmd of +1 and step size of 1 dB with up to 2 exceptions are allowed
as defined in table 5.4.2B.5.1A. This applies when the original
(reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are between the
Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for test
derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step F. For the power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test, the lower step
size requirement does not apply.

j\) During Step F, the change in mean power over 10 consecutive slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group of +1, and
step size of 1 dB as given in table 5.4.2B.5.2. This applies when the
original (reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are
between the Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for
test derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step F. The power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test should not be
part of the 10 consecutive slots tested.

k\) During Step G, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
shall be within the prescribed range given in table 5.4.2B.5.1 for a
TPC\_cmd of −1 and step size of 2 dB with up to 2 exceptions are allowed
as defined in table 5.4.2B.5.1A. This applies when the original
(reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are between the
Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for test
derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step F. For the power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test, the lower step
size requirement does not apply.

l\) During Step G, the change in mean power over 10 consecutive slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group of −1, and
step size of 2 dB as given in table 5.4.2B.5.2. This applies when the
original (reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are
between the Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for
test derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step F. The power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test should not be
part of the 10 consecutive slots.

m\) During Step H, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
shall be within the prescribed range given in table 5.4.2B.5.1 for a
TPC\_cmd of +1 and step size of 2 dB with up to 2 exceptions are allowed
as defined in table 5.4.2B.5.1A. This applies when the original
(reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are between the
Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for test
derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step H. For the power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test, the lower step
size requirement does not apply.

n\) During Step H, the change in mean power over 10 consecutive slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group of +1, and
step size of 2 dB as given in table 5.4.2B.5.2. This applies when the
original (reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are
between the Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for
test derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step H. The power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test should not be
part of the 10 consecutive slots tested.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

### 5.4.2C Inner Loop Power Control in the Uplink for UL CLTD activation state 1

Editor's note: This clause is incomplete. The following aspects are
either missing or not yet determined:

\- Test procedure, test tolerances may need an update.

\- For a transition period unti Ran5\#73, this test case in version
12.3.0 of 34.121-1 shall be used.

#### 5.4.2C.1 Definition and applicability

Inner loop power control in the uplink is the ability of the UE
transmitter to adjust its output power in accordance with one or more
TPC commands received in the downlink.

The power control step is the change in the UE transmitter output power
in response to a single TPC command, TPC\_cmd, derived at the UE.

This clause does not cover all the requirements of compressed mode or
soft handover.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL CLTD.

#### 5.4.2C.2 Minimum requirements

The UE transmitter shall have the capability of changing the output
power with a step size of 1 dB, 2 dB and 3 dB according to the value of
∆TPC or ∆RP-TPC, in the slot immediately after the TPC\_cmd can be
derived.

a\) The transmitter output power step due to inner loop power control
shall be within the range shown in table 5.4.2C.1.

b\) The transmitter aggregate output power step due to inner loop power
control shall be within the range shown in table 5.4.2C.2. Here a
TPC\_cmd group is a set of TPC\_cmd values derived from a corresponding
sequence of TPC commands of the same duration.

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL CLTD activation
state 1, the inner loop power control in the uplink specified in this
clause applies at each transmit antenna connector.

The inner loop power step is defined as the relative power difference
between the mean power of the original (reference) timeslot and the mean
power of the target timeslot, not including the transient duration. The
transient duration is from 25 µs before the slot boundary to 25 µs after
the slot boundary.

Table 5.4.2C.1: Transmitter power control range

  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------
  TPC\_cmd   Transmitter power control range (all units are in dB)                                                     
             1 dB step size                                          2 dB step size   3 dB step size                   
             Lower                                                   Upper            Lower            Upper   Lower   Upper
  +1         +0,5                                                    +1,5             +1               +3      +1,5    +4,5
  0          -0,5                                                    +0,5             -0,5             +0,5    -0,5    +0,5
  -1         -0,5                                                    -1,5             -1               -3      -1,5    -4,5
  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------

Table 5.4.2C.1A: Transmitter power control range for exceptions

  ----------- --------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- --------- --------- ---------
  TPC\_ cmd   Transmitter power control range                                                         
              1 dB step size                    2 dB step size   3 dB step size                       
              Lower                             Upper            Lower            Upper     Lower     Upper
  \+ 1        -0.5 dB                           +2.5 dB          +0.5 dB          +3.5 dB   +1.5 dB   +4.5 dB
  0           -0.5 dB                           +0.5 dB          -0.5 dB          +0.5 dB   -0.5 dB   +0.5 dB
  -1          0.5 dB                            -2.5 dB          -0.5 dB          -3.5 dB   -1.5 dB   -4.5 dB
  ----------- --------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- --------- --------- ---------

Table 5.4.2C.2: Transmitter aggregate power control tolerance

  ---------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------
  TPC\_cmd group   Transmitter power control range after 10 equal TPC\_cmd group\   Transmitter power control range after 7 equal TPC\_cmd groups\                                    
                   (all units are in dB)                                            (all units are in dB)                                                                             

                   1 dB step size                                                   2 dB step size                                                   3 dB step size                   

                   Lower                                                            Upper                                                            Lower            Upper   Lower   Upper

  +1               +8                                                               +12                                                              +16              +24     +16     +26

  0                -1                                                               +1                                                               -1               +1      -1      +1

  -1               -8                                                               -12                                                              -16              -24     -16     -26

  0,0,0,0,+1       +6                                                               +14                                                              N/A              N/A     N/A     N/A

  0,0,0,0,-1       -6                                                               -14                                                              N/A              N/A     N/A     N/A
  ---------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------

The UE shall meet the above requirements, with the exceptions defined
below, for inner loop power control over the power range bounded by the
Minimum output power as defined in clause 5.4.3.2, and the Maximum
output power supported by the UE (i.e. the actual power as would be
measured assuming no measurement error). This power shall be in the
range specified for the power class of the UE in clause 5.2.2. For each
direction, up to 2 exceptions to the transmitter power control range
defined in table 5.4.2.1 shall be allowed. The transmitter power control
range for exceptions is defined in table 5.4.2C.1A.

NOTE: 3 dB inner loop power control steps are only used in compressed
mode.

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 6.4.2.1.1C.

The requirements for the derivation of TPC\_cmd are detailed in TS
25.214 \[5\] clauses 5.1.2.2.2 and 5.1.2.2.3.

#### 5.4.2C.3 Test purpose

\- To verify that the UE inner loop power control size and response with
UL CLTD activation state 1 is meet to the described value shown in
clause 5.4.2C.2.

\- To verify that TPC\_cmd is correctly derived from received TPC
commands.

An excess error of the inner loop power control decreases the system
capacity.

The UE shall be tested for the requirements for inner loop power control
over the power range bounded by the Min power threshold for test and the
Max power threshold for test.

The Min power threshold for test is defined as the Minimum Output Power
Test Requirement (clause 5.4.3.5).

The Max power threshold for test is defined as the Measured Maximum
output power of the UE in the relevant Step of the test (using the same
method as in clause 5.2.4.2 step 2) minus the Test Tolerance specified
for test 5.2 Maximum Output Power in table F.2.1.

For the final power step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for
test, the lower step size requirement does not apply.

#### 5.4.2C.4 Method of test

##### 5.4.2C.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.52.

2\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure
specified in TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause FFS, with the following exception
for information elements in RADIO BEARER SETUP message. With this
exception, the Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to
algorithm 2.

Table 5.4.2C.4.1: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM

  ---------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element          **Value/Remark**
  CHOICE channel requirement   Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm   Algorithm 2
  ---------------------------- ------------------

> 3\) SS sends a HS-SCCH order activating UL\_CLTD activation state 1.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 5.4.2C.4.2 Procedure

![](media/image2.wmf){width="5.531944444444444in" height="2.76875in"}

Figure 5.4.2C.4 Inner Loop Power Control Test Steps

1\) Before proceeding with paragraph (2) (Step A) below, set the output
power of the UE to be in the range -10 ± 9 dBm. This may be achieved by
setting the downlink signal (Îor) to yield an appropriate open loop
output power and/or by generating suitable downlink TPC commands from
the SS.

2\) Step A: Transmit a sequence of at least 30 and no more than 60 TPC
commands, which shall commence at a frame boundary and last for a whole
number of frames, and which shall contain:

\- no sets of 5 consecutive \"0\" or \"1\" commands which commence in
the 1^st^, 6^th^ or 11^th^ slots of a frame;

\- at least one set of 5 consecutive \"0\" commands which does not
commence in the 1^st^, 6^th^ or 11^th^ slots of a frame;

\- at least one set of 5 consecutive \"1\" commands which does not
commence in the 1^st^, 6^th^ or 11^th^ slots of a frame.

> The following is an example of a suitable sequence of TPC commands:
>
> 100000101010101111101000001010101011111010000010101010111110

3\) Step B: Transmit a sequence of 50 TPC commands with the value 1.

4\) Step C: Transmit a sequence of 50 TPC commands with the value 0.

5\) Step D: Transmit the PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to
reconfigure the uplink channel in order to set the Power Control
Algorithm to algorithm 1, and the TPC step size to 1 dB. Contents of the
message is specified in the table 5.4.2C.4.2.A. After the PHYSICAL
CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION COMPLETE message from the UE is received,
transmit a sequence of TPC commands with the value 1 until the UE output
power is above the maximum power threshold.

6\) Step E: Transmit a sequence of 150 (note 1) TPC commands with the
value 0.

7\) Step F: Transmit a sequence of 150 (note 1) TPC commands with the
value 1.

8\) Step G: Transmit the PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to
reconfigure the uplink channel in order to set the TPC step size to 2 dB
(with the Power Control Algorithm remaining as algorithm 1). Contents of
the message is specified in the table 5.4.2C.4.2.B. After the PHYSICAL
CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION COMPLETE message from the UE is received,
transmit a sequence of TPC commands with the value 1 until the UE output
power is above the maximum power threshold. Transmit a sequence of 75
(note 1) TPC commands with the value 0.

9\) Step H: Transmit a sequence of 75 (note 1) TPC commands with the
value 1.

10\) During steps A to H the mean power of every slot shall be measured,
with the following exceptions:

\- In steps D and F, measurement of the mean power is not required in
slots after the 10^th^ slot after the mean power has exceeded the
maximum power threshold;

\- In steps E and G, measurement of the mean power is not required in
slots after the 10^th^ slot after the mean power has fallen below the
minimum power threshold.

The transient periods of 25 µs before each slot boundary and 25 µs after
each slot boundary shall not be included in the power measurements.

NOTE 1: These numbers of TPC commands are given as examples. The actual
number of TPC commands transmitted in these steps shall be at least 10
more than the number required to ensure that the UE reaches the relevant
maximum or minimum power threshold in each step, as shown in figure
5.4.2C.4.

NOTE 2: In order to make it more practical to measure the entire power
control dynamic range (between min power threshold and max power
threshold with suitable margins), it is permissible to segment the power
control sequences into smaller subsequence. For example, Step-E can be
divided into different stages while still fulfilling the purpose of the
test to measure the entire dynamic range.

Table 5.4.2C.4.2.A: PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message for step D
(step 5)

  -------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------
  Information Element                                Value/Remark                                                                                                                                                         Version
  Message Type                                                                                                                                                                                                            
  UE Information Elements                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  -RRC transaction identifier                        0                                                                                                                                                                    
  -Integrity check info                                                                                                                                                                                                   
  \- message authentication code                     SS calculates the value of MAC-I for this message and writes to this IE. The first/ leftmost bit of the bit string contains the most significant bit of the MAC-I.   
  \- RRC message sequence number                     SS provides the value of this IE, from its internal counter.                                                                                                         
  -Integrity protection mode info                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Ciphering mode info                               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Activation time                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -New U-RNTI                                        Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -New C-RNTI                                        Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -RRC State Indicator                               CELL\_DCH                                                                                                                                                            
  -UTRAN DRX cycle length coefficient                Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  CN Information Elements                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  -CN Information info                               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  UTRAN mobility information elements                                                                                                                                                                                     
  -URA identity                                      Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  RB information elements                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  -Downlink counter synchronisation info             Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  PhyCH information elements                                                                                                                                                                                              
  -Frequency info                                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  Uplink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Maximum allowed UL TX power                       Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -CHOICE channel requirement                        Uplink DPCH info                                                                                                                                                     
  -Uplink DPCH power control info                                                                                                                                                                                         
  -CHOICE mode                                       FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -DPCCH Power offset                                -40 (-80dB)                                                                                                                                                          
  -PC Preamble                                       1 frame                                                                                                                                                              
  -SRB delay                                         7 frames                                                                                                                                                             
  -Power Control Algorithm                           Algorithm 1                                                                                                                                                          
  -TPC step size                                     1dB                                                                                                                                                                  
  -CHOICE mode                                       FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Scrambling code type                              Long                                                                                                                                                                 
  -Scrambling code number                            0                                                                                                                                                                    
  -Number of DPDCH                                   1                                                                                                                                                                    
  -spreading factor                                  64                                                                                                                                                                   
  -TFCI existence                                    TRUE                                                                                                                                                                 
  -Number of FBI bits                                Not Present(0)                                                                                                                                                       
  -Puncturing Limit                                  1                                                                                                                                                                    
  Downlink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                                
  -CHOICE mode                                       FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Downlink PDSCH information                        Not Present                                                                                                                                                          R99 and Rel-4 only
  -Downlink information common for all radio links   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Downlink DPCH info common for all RL              Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------

Table 5.4.2C.4.2.B: PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message for step G
(step 8)

  -------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------
  Information Element                                Value/Remark                                                                                                                                                         Version
  Message Type                                                                                                                                                                                                            
  UE Information Elements                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  -RRC transaction identifier                        0                                                                                                                                                                    
  -Integrity check info                                                                                                                                                                                                   
  \- message authentication code                     SS calculates the value of MAC-I for this message and writes to this IE. The first/ leftmost bit of the bit string contains the most significant bit of the MAC-I.   
  \- RRC message sequence number                     SS provides the value of this IE, from its internal counter.                                                                                                         
  -Integrity protection mode info                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Ciphering mode info                               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Activation time                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -New U-RNTI                                        Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -New C-RNTI                                        Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -RRC State Indicator                               CELL\_DCH                                                                                                                                                            
  -UTRAN DRX cycle length coefficient                Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  CN Information Elements                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  -CN Information info                               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  UTRAN mobility information elements                                                                                                                                                                                     
  -URA identity                                      Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  RB information elements                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  -Downlink counter synchronisation info             Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  PhyCH information elements                                                                                                                                                                                              
  -Frequency info                                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  Uplink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Maximum allowed UL TX power                       Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -CHOICE channel requirement                        Uplink DPCH info                                                                                                                                                     
  -Uplink DPCH power control info                                                                                                                                                                                         
  -CHOICE mode                                       FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -DPCCH Power offset                                -40 (-80dB)                                                                                                                                                          
  -PC Preamble                                       1 frame                                                                                                                                                              
  -SRB delay                                         7 frames                                                                                                                                                             
  -Power Control Algorithm                           Algorithm 1                                                                                                                                                          
  -TPC step size                                     2dB                                                                                                                                                                  
  -CHOICE mode                                       FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Scrambling code type                              Long                                                                                                                                                                 
  -Scrambling code number                            0                                                                                                                                                                    
  -Number of DPDCH                                   1                                                                                                                                                                    
  -spreading factor                                  64                                                                                                                                                                   
  -TFCI existence                                    TRUE                                                                                                                                                                 
  -Number of FBI bits                                Not Present(0)                                                                                                                                                       
  -Puncturing Limit                                  1                                                                                                                                                                    
  Downlink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                                
  -CHOICE mode                                       FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Downlink PDSCH information                        Not Present                                                                                                                                                          R99 and Rel-4 only
  -Downlink information common for all radio links   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Downlink DPCH info common for all RL              Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------

#### 5.4.2C.5 Test requirements

Table 5.4.2C.5.1: Transmitter power control range

  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ---------- ---------- ----------
  TPC\_cmd   Transmitter power control range (all units are in dB)                                                           
             1 dB step size                                          2 dB step size   3 dB step size                         
             Lower                                                   Upper            Lower            Upper      Lower      Upper
  +1         +0,5± TT                                                +1,5± TT         +1± TT           +3± TT     +1,5± TT   +4,5± TT
  0          -0,5± TT                                                +0,5± TT         -0,5± TT         +0,5± TT   -0,5± TT   +0,5± TT
  -1         -0,5± TT                                                -1,5± TT         -1± TT           -3± TT     -1,5± TT   -4,5± TT
  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ---------- ---------- ----------

Table 5.4.2C.5.1A: Transmitter power control range for exceptions

  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------
  TPC\_cmd   Transmitter power control range (all units are in dB)                                                     
             1 dB step size                                          2 dB step size   3 dB step size                   
             Lower                                                   Upper            Lower            Upper   Lower   Upper
  +1         -0.6                                                    +2,6             +0,35            +3,65   +1,3    +4,7
  0          -0,6                                                    +0,6             -0,6             +0,6    -0,6    +0,6
  -1         0.6                                                     -2,6             -0,35            -3,65   -1,3    -4,7
  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------

Table 5.4.2C.5.2: Transmitter aggregate power control tolerance

  ---------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- -------- -------- --------
  TPC\_cmd group   Transmitter power control range after 10 equal TPC\_cmd group\   Transmitter power control range after 7 equal TPC\_cmd groups\                                      
                   (all units are in dB)                                            (all units are in dB)                                                                               

                   1 dB step size                                                   2 dB step size                                                   3 dB step size                     

                   Lower                                                            Upper                                                            Lower            Upper    Lower    Upper

  +1               +8±TT                                                            +12±TT                                                           +16±TT           +24±TT   +16±TT   +26±TT

  0                −1±TT                                                            +1±TT                                                            −1±TT            +1±TT    −1±TT    +1±TT

  −1               −8±TT                                                            −12±TT                                                           −16±TT           −24±TT   −16±TT   −26±TT

  0,0,0,0,+1       +6±TT                                                            +14±TT                                                           N/A              N/A      N/A      N/A

  0,0,0,0,−1       −6±TT                                                            −14±TT                                                           N/A              N/A      N/A      N/A
  ---------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- -------- -------- --------

a\) During Step A, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd of 0, as given in
table 5.4.2C.5.1.

b\) During Step A, the change in mean power over 10 consecutive slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group of 0, as given
in table 5.4.2C.5.2.

c\) During Step B, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
shall be within the prescribed range given in table 5.4.2C.5.1, with up
to 2 exceptions are allowed as defined in table 5.4.2C.5.1A, given that
every 5^th^ TPC\_cmd should have the value +1, with a step size of 1 dB,
and all other TPC\_cmd should have the value 0.

d\) During Step B, the change in mean power over 50 consecutive slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group of
{0,0,0,0,+1}, as given in table 5.4.2C.5.2.

e\) During Step C, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
shall be within the prescribed range given in table 5.4.2C.5.1, with up
to 2 exceptions are allowed as defined in table 5.4.2C.5.1A, given that
every 5^th^ TPC\_cmd should have the value −1, with a step size of 1 dB,
and all other TPC\_cmd should have the value 0.

f\) During Step C, the change in mean power over 50 consecutive slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group of
{0,0,0,0,-1}, as given in table 5.4.2C.5.2.

g\) During Step E, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
shall be within the prescribed range given in table 5.4.2C.5.1 for a
TPC\_cmd of −1 and step size of 1 dB with up to 2 exceptions are allowed
as defined in table 5.4.2C.5.1A. This applies when the original
(reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are between the
Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for test
derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step D. For the power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test, the lower step
size requirement does not apply.

h\) During Step E, the change in mean power over 10 consecutive slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group of −1, and
step size of 1 dB as given in table 5.4.2C.5.2. This applies when the
original (reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are
between the Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for
test derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step D. The power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test should not be
part of the 10 consecutive slots tested.

i\) During Step F, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
shall be within the prescribed range given in table 5.4.2C.5.1 for a
TPC\_cmd of +1 and step size of 1 dB with up to 2 exceptions are allowed
as defined in table 5.4.2C.5.1A. This applies when the original
(reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are between the
Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for test
derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step F. For the power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test, the lower step
size requirement does not apply.

j\) During Step F, the change in mean power over 10 consecutive slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group of +1, and
step size of 1 dB as given in table 5.4.2C.5.2. This applies when the
original (reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are
between the Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for
test derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step F. The power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test should not be
part of the 10 consecutive slots tested.

k\) During Step G, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
shall be within the prescribed range given in table 5.4.2C.5.1 for a
TPC\_cmd of −1 and step size of 2 dB with up to 2 exceptions are allowed
as defined in table 5.4.2C.5.1A. This applies when the original
(reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are between the
Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for test
derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step F. For the power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test, the lower step
size requirement does not apply.

l\) During Step G, the change in mean power over 10 consecutive slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group of −1, and
step size of 2 dB as given in table 5.4.2C.5.2. This applies when the
original (reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are
between the Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for
test derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step F. The power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test should not be
part of the 10 consecutive slots.

m\) During Step H, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
shall be within the prescribed range given in table 5.4.2C.5.1 for a
TPC\_cmd of +1 and step size of 2 dB with up to 2 exceptions are allowed
as defined in table 5.4.2C.5.1A. This applies when the original
(reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are between the
Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for test
derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step H. For the power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test, the lower step
size requirement does not apply.

n\) During Step H, the change in mean power over 10 consecutive slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group of +1, and
step size of 2 dB as given in table 5.4.2C.5.2. This applies when the
original (reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are
between the Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for
test derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step H. The power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test should not be
part of the 10 consecutive slots tested.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

### 5.4.2D Inner Loop Power Control in the Uplink for UL CLTD activation state 2 and 3

Editor's note: This clause is incomplete. The following aspects are
either missing or not yet determined:

\- Call Setup procedure, test procedure, test tolerances may need an
update.

\- Update of Annexure is FFS.

\- For a transition period unti Ran5\#73, this test case in version
12.3.0 of 34.121-1 shall be used.

#### 5.4.2D.1 Definition and applicability

Inner loop power control in the uplink is the ability of the UE
transmitter to adjust its output power in accordance with one or more
TPC commands received in the downlink.

The power control step is the change in the UE transmitter output power
in response to a single TPC command, TPC\_cmd, derived at the UE.

This clause does not cover all the requirements of compressed mode or
soft handover.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL CLTD.

#### 5.4.2D.2 Minimum requirements

The UE transmitter shall have the capability of changing the output
power with a step size of 1 dB, 2 dB and 3 dB according to the value of
∆TPC or ∆RP-TPC, in the slot immediately after the TPC\_cmd can be
derived.

a\) The transmitter output power step due to inner loop power control
shall be within the range shown in table 5.4.2D.1.

b\) The transmitter aggregate output power step due to inner loop power
control shall be within the range shown in table 5.4.2D.2. Here a
TPC\_cmd group is a set of TPC\_cmd values derived from a corresponding
sequence of TPC commands of the same duration.

For UE configured in UL CLTD activation state 2 or 3, the inner loop
power control in the uplink specified in this clause applies at the
active transmit antenna connector.

The inner loop power step is defined as the relative power difference
between the mean power of the original (reference) timeslot and the mean
power of the target timeslot, not including the transient duration. The
transient duration is from 25 µs before the slot boundary to 25 µs after
the slot boundary.

Table 5.4.2D.1: Transmitter power control range

  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------
  TPC\_cmd   Transmitter power control range (all units are in dB)                                                     
             1 dB step size                                          2 dB step size   3 dB step size                   
             Lower                                                   Upper            Lower            Upper   Lower   Upper
  +1         +0,5                                                    +1,5             +1               +3      +1,5    +4,5
  0          -0,5                                                    +0,5             -0,5             +0,5    -0,5    +0,5
  -1         -0,5                                                    -1,5             -1               -3      -1,5    -4,5
  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------

Table 5.4.2D.1A: Transmitter power control range for exceptions

  ----------- --------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- --------- --------- ---------
  TPC\_ cmd   Transmitter power control range                                                         
              1 dB step size                    2 dB step size   3 dB step size                       
              Lower                             Upper            Lower            Upper     Lower     Upper
  \+ 1        -0.5 dB                           +2.5 dB          +0.5 dB          +3.5 dB   +1.5 dB   +4.5 dB
  0           -0.5 dB                           +0.5 dB          -0.5 dB          +0.5 dB   -0.5 dB   +0.5 dB
  -1          0.5 dB                            -2.5 dB          -0.5 dB          -3.5 dB   -1.5 dB   -4.5 dB
  ----------- --------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- --------- --------- ---------

Table 5.4.2D.2: Transmitter aggregate power control tolerance

  ---------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------
  TPC\_cmd group   Transmitter power control range after 10 equal TPC\_cmd group\   Transmitter power control range after 7 equal TPC\_cmd groups\                                    
                   (all units are in dB)                                            (all units are in dB)                                                                             

                   1 dB step size                                                   2 dB step size                                                   3 dB step size                   

                   Lower                                                            Upper                                                            Lower            Upper   Lower   Upper

  +1               +8                                                               +12                                                              +16              +24     +16     +26

  0                -1                                                               +1                                                               -1               +1      -1      +1

  -1               -8                                                               -12                                                              -16              -24     -16     -26

  0,0,0,0,+1       +6                                                               +14                                                              N/A              N/A     N/A     N/A

  0,0,0,0,-1       -6                                                               -14                                                              N/A              N/A     N/A     N/A
  ---------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------

The UE shall meet the above requirements, with the exceptions defined
below, for inner loop power control over the power range bounded by the
Minimum output power as defined in clause 5.4.3.2, and the Maximum
output power supported by the UE (i.e. the actual power as would be
measured assuming no measurement error). This power shall be in the
range specified for the power class of the UE in clause 5.2.2. For each
direction, up to 2 exceptions to the transmitter power control range
defined in table 5.4.2.1 shall be allowed. The transmitter power control
range for exceptions is defined in table 5.4.2D.1A.

NOTE: 3 dB inner loop power control steps are only used in compressed
mode.

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 6.4.2.1.1C.

The requirements for the derivation of TPC\_cmd are detailed in TS
25.214 \[5\] clauses 5.1.2.2.2 and 5.1.2.2.3.

#### 5.4.2D.3 Test purpose

\- To verify that the UE inner loop power control size and response with
UL CLTD activation state 2 and 3 is meet to the described value shown in
clause 5.4.2D.2.

\- To verify that TPC\_cmd is correctly derived from received TPC
commands.

An excess error of the inner loop power control decreases the system
capacity.

The UE shall be tested for the requirements for inner loop power control
over the power range bounded by the Min power threshold for test and the
Max power threshold for test.

The Min power threshold for test is defined as the Minimum Output Power
Test Requirement (clause 5.4.3.5).

The Max power threshold for test is defined as the Measured Maximum
output power of the UE in the relevant Step of the test (using the same
method as in clause 5.2.4.2 step 2) minus the Test Tolerance specified
for test 5.2 Maximum Output Power in table F.2.1.

For the final power step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for
test, the lower step size requirement does not apply.

#### 5.4.2D.4 Method of test

##### 5.4.2D.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure FFS.

2\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure
specified in TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.17, with the following
exception for information elements in RADIO BEARER SETUP message. With
this exception, the Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to
algorithm 2.

Table 5.4.2D.4.1: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM

  ---------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element          **Value/Remark**
  CHOICE channel requirement   Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm   Algorithm 2
  ---------------------------- ------------------

> 3\) SS sends a HS-SCCH order activating UL\_CLTD activation state 2.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 5.4.2D.4.2 Procedure

![](media/image2.wmf){width="5.531944444444444in" height="2.76875in"}

Figure 5.4.2D.4 Inner Loop Power Control Test Steps

1\) Before proceeding with paragraph (2) (Step A) below, set the output
power of the UE to be in the range -10 ± 9 dBm. This may be achieved by
setting the downlink signal (Îor) to yield an appropriate open loop
output power and/or by generating suitable downlink TPC commands from
the SS.

2\) Step A: Transmit a sequence of at least 30 and no more than 60 TPC
commands, which shall commence at a frame boundary and last for a whole
number of frames, and which shall contain:

\- no sets of 5 consecutive \"0\" or \"1\" commands which commence in
the 1^st^, 6^th^ or 11^th^ slots of a frame;

\- at least one set of 5 consecutive \"0\" commands which does not
commence in the 1^st^, 6^th^ or 11^th^ slots of a frame;

\- at least one set of 5 consecutive \"1\" commands which does not
commence in the 1^st^, 6^th^ or 11^th^ slots of a frame.

> The following is an example of a suitable sequence of TPC commands:
>
> 100000101010101111101000001010101011111010000010101010111110

3\) Step B: Transmit a sequence of 50 TPC commands with the value 1.

4\) Step C: Transmit a sequence of 50 TPC commands with the value 0.

5\) Step D: Transmit the PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to
reconfigure the uplink channel in order to set the Power Control
Algorithm to algorithm 1, and the TPC step size to 1 dB. Contents of the
message is specified in the table 5.4.2D.4.2.A. After the PHYSICAL
CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION COMPLETE message from the UE is received,
transmit a sequence of TPC commands with the value 1 until the UE output
power is above the maximum power threshold.

6\) Step E: Transmit a sequence of 150 (note 1) TPC commands with the
value 0.

7\) Step F: Transmit a sequence of 150 (note 1) TPC commands with the
value 1.

8\) Step G: Transmit the PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to
reconfigure the uplink channel in order to set the TPC step size to 2 dB
(with the Power Control Algorithm remaining as algorithm 1). Contents of
the message is specified in the table 5.4.2D.4.2.B. After the PHYSICAL
CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION COMPLETE message from the UE is received,
transmit a sequence of TPC commands with the value 1 until the UE output
power is above the maximum power threshold. Transmit a sequence of 75
(note 1) TPC commands with the value 0.

9\) Step H: Transmit a sequence of 75 (note 1) TPC commands with the
value 1.

10\) During steps A to H the mean power of every slot shall be measured,
with the following exceptions:

\- In steps D and F, measurement of the mean power is not required in
slots after the 10^th^ slot after the mean power has exceeded the
maximum power threshold;

\- In steps E and G, measurement of the mean power is not required in
slots after the 10^th^ slot after the mean power has fallen below the
minimum power threshold.

The transient periods of 25 µs before each slot boundary and 25 µs after
each slot boundary shall not be included in the power measurements.

> 11\) SS sends a HS-SCCH order activating UL\_CLTD activation state 3
>
> 12\) Repeat step 1 to 10 for activation state 3.

NOTE 1: These numbers of TPC commands are given as examples. The actual
number of TPC commands transmitted in these steps shall be at least 10
more than the number required to ensure that the UE reaches the relevant
maximum or minimum power threshold in each step, as shown in figure
5.4.2D.4.

NOTE 2: In order to make it more practical to measure the entire power
control dynamic range (between min power threshold and max power
threshold with suitable margins), it is permissible to segment the power
control sequences into smaller subsequence. For example, Step-E can be
divided into different stages while still fulfilling the purpose of the
test to measure the entire dynamic range.

Table 5.4.2D.4.2.A: PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message for step D
(step 5)

  -------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------
  Information Element                                Value/Remark                                                                                                                                                         Version
  Message Type                                                                                                                                                                                                            
  UE Information Elements                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  -RRC transaction identifier                        0                                                                                                                                                                    
  -Integrity check info                                                                                                                                                                                                   
  \- message authentication code                     SS calculates the value of MAC-I for this message and writes to this IE. The first/ leftmost bit of the bit string contains the most significant bit of the MAC-I.   
  \- RRC message sequence number                     SS provides the value of this IE, from its internal counter.                                                                                                         
  -Integrity protection mode info                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Ciphering mode info                               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Activation time                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -New U-RNTI                                        Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -New C-RNTI                                        Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -RRC State Indicator                               CELL\_DCH                                                                                                                                                            
  -UTRAN DRX cycle length coefficient                Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  CN Information Elements                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  -CN Information info                               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  UTRAN mobility information elements                                                                                                                                                                                     
  -URA identity                                      Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  RB information elements                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  -Downlink counter synchronisation info             Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  PhyCH information elements                                                                                                                                                                                              
  -Frequency info                                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  Uplink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Maximum allowed UL TX power                       Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -CHOICE channel requirement                        Uplink DPCH info                                                                                                                                                     
  -Uplink DPCH power control info                                                                                                                                                                                         
  -CHOICE mode                                       FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -DPCCH Power offset                                -40 (-80dB)                                                                                                                                                          
  -PC Preamble                                       1 frame                                                                                                                                                              
  -SRB delay                                         7 frames                                                                                                                                                             
  -Power Control Algorithm                           Algorithm 1                                                                                                                                                          
  -TPC step size                                     1dB                                                                                                                                                                  
  -CHOICE mode                                       FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Scrambling code type                              Long                                                                                                                                                                 
  -Scrambling code number                            0                                                                                                                                                                    
  -Number of DPDCH                                   1                                                                                                                                                                    
  -spreading factor                                  64                                                                                                                                                                   
  -TFCI existence                                    TRUE                                                                                                                                                                 
  -Number of FBI bits                                Not Present(0)                                                                                                                                                       
  -Puncturing Limit                                  1                                                                                                                                                                    
  Downlink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                                
  -CHOICE mode                                       FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Downlink PDSCH information                        Not Present                                                                                                                                                          R99 and Rel-4 only
  -Downlink information common for all radio links   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Downlink DPCH info common for all RL              Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------

Table 5.4.2D.4.2.B: PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message for step G
(step 8)

  -------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------
  Information Element                                Value/Remark                                                                                                                                                         Version
  Message Type                                                                                                                                                                                                            
  UE Information Elements                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  -RRC transaction identifier                        0                                                                                                                                                                    
  -Integrity check info                                                                                                                                                                                                   
  \- message authentication code                     SS calculates the value of MAC-I for this message and writes to this IE. The first/ leftmost bit of the bit string contains the most significant bit of the MAC-I.   
  \- RRC message sequence number                     SS provides the value of this IE, from its internal counter.                                                                                                         
  -Integrity protection mode info                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Ciphering mode info                               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Activation time                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -New U-RNTI                                        Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -New C-RNTI                                        Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -RRC State Indicator                               CELL\_DCH                                                                                                                                                            
  -UTRAN DRX cycle length coefficient                Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  CN Information Elements                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  -CN Information info                               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  UTRAN mobility information elements                                                                                                                                                                                     
  -URA identity                                      Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  RB information elements                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  -Downlink counter synchronisation info             Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  PhyCH information elements                                                                                                                                                                                              
  -Frequency info                                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  Uplink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Maximum allowed UL TX power                       Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -CHOICE channel requirement                        Uplink DPCH info                                                                                                                                                     
  -Uplink DPCH power control info                                                                                                                                                                                         
  -CHOICE mode                                       FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -DPCCH Power offset                                -40 (-80dB)                                                                                                                                                          
  -PC Preamble                                       1 frame                                                                                                                                                              
  -SRB delay                                         7 frames                                                                                                                                                             
  -Power Control Algorithm                           Algorithm 1                                                                                                                                                          
  -TPC step size                                     2dB                                                                                                                                                                  
  -CHOICE mode                                       FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Scrambling code type                              Long                                                                                                                                                                 
  -Scrambling code number                            0                                                                                                                                                                    
  -Number of DPDCH                                   1                                                                                                                                                                    
  -spreading factor                                  64                                                                                                                                                                   
  -TFCI existence                                    TRUE                                                                                                                                                                 
  -Number of FBI bits                                Not Present(0)                                                                                                                                                       
  -Puncturing Limit                                  1                                                                                                                                                                    
  Downlink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                                
  -CHOICE mode                                       FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Downlink PDSCH information                        Not Present                                                                                                                                                          R99 and Rel-4 only
  -Downlink information common for all radio links   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Downlink DPCH info common for all RL              Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------

#### 5.4.2D.5 Test requirements

Table 5.4.2D.5.1: Transmitter power control range

  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ---------- ---------- ----------
  TPC\_cmd   Transmitter power control range (all units are in dB)                                                           
             1 dB step size                                          2 dB step size   3 dB step size                         
             Lower                                                   Upper            Lower            Upper      Lower      Upper
  +1         +0,5± TT                                                +1,5± TT         +1± TT           +3± TT     +1,5± TT   +4,5± TT
  0          -0,5± TT                                                +0,5± TT         -0,5± TT         +0,5± TT   -0,5± TT   +0,5± TT
  -1         -0,5± TT                                                -1,5± TT         -1± TT           -3± TT     -1,5± TT   -4,5± TT
  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ---------- ---------- ----------

Table 5.4.2D.5.1A: Transmitter power control range for exceptions

  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------
  TPC\_cmd   Transmitter power control range (all units are in dB)                                                     
             1 dB step size                                          2 dB step size   3 dB step size                   
             Lower                                                   Upper            Lower            Upper   Lower   Upper
  +1         -0.6                                                    +2,6             +0,35            +3,65   +1,3    +4,7
  0          -0,6                                                    +0,6             -0,6             +0,6    -0,6    +0,6
  -1         0.6                                                     -2,6             -0,35            -3,65   -1,3    -4,7
  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------

Table 5.4.2D.5.2: Transmitter aggregate power control tolerance

  ---------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- -------- -------- --------
  TPC\_cmd group   Transmitter power control range after 10 equal TPC\_cmd group\   Transmitter power control range after 7 equal TPC\_cmd groups\                                      
                   (all units are in dB)                                            (all units are in dB)                                                                               

                   1 dB step size                                                   2 dB step size                                                   3 dB step size                     

                   Lower                                                            Upper                                                            Lower            Upper    Lower    Upper

  +1               +8±TT                                                            +12±TT                                                           +16±TT           +24±TT   +16±TT   +26±TT

  0                −1±TT                                                            +1±TT                                                            −1±TT            +1±TT    −1±TT    +1±TT

  −1               −8±TT                                                            −12±TT                                                           −16±TT           −24±TT   −16±TT   −26±TT

  0,0,0,0,+1       +6±TT                                                            +14±TT                                                           N/A              N/A      N/A      N/A

  0,0,0,0,−1       −6±TT                                                            −14±TT                                                           N/A              N/A      N/A      N/A
  ---------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- -------- -------- --------

a\) During Step A, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd of 0, as given in
table 5.4.2D.5.1.

b\) During Step A, the change in mean power over 10 consecutive slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group of 0, as given
in table 5.4.2D.5.2.

c\) During Step B, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
shall be within the prescribed range given in table 5.4.2D.5.1, with up
to 2 exceptions are allowed as defined in table 5.4.2D.5.1A, given that
every 5^th^ TPC\_cmd should have the value +1, with a step size of 1 dB,
and all other TPC\_cmd should have the value 0.

d\) During Step B, the change in mean power over 50 consecutive slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group of
{0,0,0,0,+1}, as given in table 5.4.2D.5.2.

e\) During Step C, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
shall be within the prescribed range given in table 5.4.2D.5.1, with up
to 2 exceptions are allowed as defined in table 5.4.2D.5.1A, given that
every 5^th^ TPC\_cmd should have the value −1, with a step size of 1 dB,
and all other TPC\_cmd should have the value 0.

f\) During Step C, the change in mean power over 50 consecutive slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group of
{0,0,0,0,-1}, as given in table 5.4.2D.5.2.

g\) During Step E, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
shall be within the prescribed range given in table 5.4.2D.5.1 for a
TPC\_cmd of −1 and step size of 1 dB with up to 2 exceptions are allowed
as defined in table 5.4.2D.5.1A. This applies when the original
(reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are between the
Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for test
derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step D. For the power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test, the lower step
size requirement does not apply.

h\) During Step E, the change in mean power over 10 consecutive slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group of −1, and
step size of 1 dB as given in table 5.4.2D.5.2. This applies when the
original (reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are
between the Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for
test derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step D. The power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test should not be
part of the 10 consecutive slots tested.

i\) During Step F, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
shall be within the prescribed range given in table 5.4.2D.5.1 for a
TPC\_cmd of +1 and step size of 1 dB with up to 2 exceptions are allowed
as defined in table 5.4.2D.5.1A. This applies when the original
(reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are between the
Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for test
derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step F. For the power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test, the lower step
size requirement does not apply.

j\) During Step F, the change in mean power over 10 consecutive slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group of +1, and
step size of 1 dB as given in table 5.4.2D.5.2. This applies when the
original (reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are
between the Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for
test derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step F. The power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test should not be
part of the 10 consecutive slots tested.

k\) During Step G, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
shall be within the prescribed range given in table 5.4.2D.5.1 for a
TPC\_cmd of −1 and step size of 2 dB with up to 2 exceptions are allowed
as defined in table 5.4.2D.5.1A. This applies when the original
(reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are between the
Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for test
derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step F. For the power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test, the lower step
size requirement does not apply.

l\) During Step G, the change in mean power over 10 consecutive slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group of −1, and
step size of 2 dB as given in table 5.4.2D.5.2. This applies when the
original (reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are
between the Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for
test derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step F. The power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test should not be
part of the 10 consecutive slots.

m\) During Step H, the difference in mean power between adjacent slots
shall be within the prescribed range given in table 5.4.2D.5.1 for a
TPC\_cmd of +1 and step size of 2 dB with up to 2 exceptions are allowed
as defined in table 5.4.2D.5.1A. This applies when the original
(reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are between the
Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for test
derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step H. For the power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test, the lower step
size requirement does not apply.

n\) During Step H, the change in mean power over 10 consecutive slots
shall be within the prescribed range for a TPC\_cmd group of +1, and
step size of 2 dB as given in table 5.4.2D.5.2. This applies when the
original (reference) timeslot power and the target timeslot power are
between the Min power threshold for test and the Max power threshold for
test derived from the Measured Maximum output power in Step H. The power
step adjacent to the Min or Max power threshold for test should not be
part of the 10 consecutive slots tested.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause FFS and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause FFS.

### 5.4.3 Minimum Output Power

#### 5.4.3.1 Definition and applicability

The minimum controlled output power of the UE is when the power control
setting is set to a minimum value. This is when both the inner loop and
open loop power control indicate a minimum transmit output power is
required.

The requirements and this test apply to all types of UTRA for the FDD
UE.

#### 5.4.3.2 Minimum Requirements

The minimum output power is defined as the mean power in one timeslot.
The minimum transmit power shall be less than −50 dBm.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.4.3.1.

#### 5.4.3.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE minimum transmit power is less than −50 dBm.

An excess minimum output power increases the interference to other
channels, and decreases the system capacity.

#### 5.4.3.4 Method of test

##### 5.4.3.4.1 Initial conditions {#initial-conditions-4 .H6}

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.1.

2\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure in
TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.2.

3\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 5.4.3.4.2 Procedure {#procedure-4 .H6}

1\) Set and send continuously Down power control commands to the UE.

2\) Measure the mean power of the UE.

#### 5.4.3.5 Test requirements

The measured power, derived in step 2), shall be less than −49 dBm.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

### 5.4.3A Minimum Output Power for DC-HSUPA

#### 5.4.3A.1 Definition and applicability

The minimum controlled output power of the UE is when the power control
setting is set to a minimum value. This is when both the inner loop and
open loop power control indicate a minimum transmit output power is
required.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 9 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA and Dual Cell E-DCH.

#### 5.4.3A.2 Minimum Requirements

The minimum output power is defined as the mean power in one time slot
in each carrier. The minimum output power in each carrier shall be less
than -50 dBm, when both carriers are set to minimum output power.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.4.3.1A.

#### 5.4.3A.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE minimum transmit power in each carrier is less
than −50 dBm when both carriers are set to minimum output power.

An excess minimum output power increases the interference to other
channels, and decreases the system capacity.

#### 5.4.3A.4 Method of test

##### 5.4.3A.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.41.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and parameters are specified in
Annex C.2.6 and C.11A. The DL Reference Measurement Channel (FRC H-SET
3A, QPSK) is specified in C.8.1.1.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.14 with the
exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP message given in Tables 5.2BA.2,
5.2BA.3 and 5.2BA4. These exceptions allow the beta values to be set
according to table C.11A.1. and each UL physical channel to be at
constant power during the measurement. RF parameters are set up
according to table E.5A.1A. Settings for the serving cell are defined in
table 5.4.3A.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping back HSDPA to E-DCH
according to procedure 7.3.14.3 in TS 34.108 \[3\] and start the
loopback test

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.4.3A: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of\
Minimum Output Power with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.4.3A.4.1               |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

##### 5.4.3A.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set and send continuously Down power control commands to the UE.

2\) Measure the mean power in each carrier of the UE.

#### 5.4.3A.5 Test requirements

The measured power in each carrier, derived in step 2), shall be less
than −49 dBm.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

### 5.4.3B Minimum Output Power for OLTD

Editor's Note: This clause is incomplete. The following aspects are
either missing or not yet determined

> \- Uplink Reference Measurement Channel is TBD.

#### 5.4.3B.1 Definition and applicability

The minimum controlled output power of the UE is when the power control
setting is set to a minimum value. This is when both the inner loop and
open loop power control indicate a minimum transmit output power is
required.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support uplink OLTD.

#### 5.4.3B.2 Minimum Requirements

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL OLTD, the
minimum output power specified in sub-clause 5.4.3.2 applies at each
transmit antenna connector, when the UE power is set to a minimum value.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.4.3.1B.

#### 5.4.3B.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE minimum transmit power at each carrier is less
than −50 dBm when the UE power is set to a minimum value.

An excess minimum output power increases the interference to other
channels, and decreases the system capacity.

#### 5.4.3B.4 Method of test

##### 5.4.3B.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and parameters are specified in
Annex TBD. The DL Reference Measurement Channel (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK) is
specified in Annex C.8.1.1.

3\) An HSDPA call with OLTD is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\]
7.3.18. RF parameters are set up according to tables E.5.1 and E.5.10.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.4.3B.1.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

Table 5.4.3B.1: Settings for the serving cell

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.4.3B.4.1               |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

See TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback test mode for HSDPA .

##### 5.4.3B.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set and send continuously Down power control commands to the UE.

2\) Measure the mean power at each carrier of the UE.

#### 5.4.3B.5 Test requirements

The measured power at each carrier, derived in step 2), shall be less
than −49 dBm.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

### 5.4.3C Minimum Output Power for UL CLTD Activation state 1

#### 5.4.3C.1 Definition and applicability

The minimum controlled output power of the UE is when the power control
setting is set to a minimum value. This is when both the inner loop and
open loop power control indicate a minimum transmit output power is
required.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support uplink CLTD.

#### 5.4.3C.2 Minimum Requirements

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL CLTD activation
state 1, the minimum output power specified in sub-clause 5.4.3.2
applies at each transmit antenna connector, when the UE power is set to
a minimum value.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.4.3.1C.

#### 5.4.3C.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE minimum transmit power at each carrier is less
than −50 dBm when the UE power is set to a minimum value.

An excess minimum output power increases the interference to other
channels, and decreases the system capacity.

#### 5.4.3C.4 Method of test

##### 5.4.3C.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and parameters are specified in
Annex C, clause C.10.2. The DL Reference Measurement Channel (FRC H-Set
1, QPSK) is specified in Annex C.8.1.1.

3\) An HSDPA call with CLTD is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\]
7.3.17. RF parameters are set up according to tables E.5.1 and E.5.10.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.4.3C.1.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

Table 5.4.3C.1: Settings for the serving cell

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.4.3C.4.1               |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

See TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback test mode for HSDPA.

##### 5.4.3C.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set and send continuously Down power control commands to the UE.

2\) Measure the mean power at each carrier of the UE.

#### 5.4.3C.5 Test requirements

The measured power at each carrier, derived in step 2), shall be less
than −49 dBm.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

### 5.4.3D Minimum Output Power for UL CLTD Activation state 2 and 3

#### 5.4.3D.1 Definition and applicability

The minimum controlled output power of the UE is when the power control
setting is set to a minimum value. This is when both the inner loop and
open loop power control indicate a minimum transmit output power is
required.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support uplink CLTD.

#### 5.4.3D.2 Minimum Requirements

For UE configured in UL CLTD activation state 2 or activation state 3,
the minimum output power specified in sub-clause 5.4.3.2 applies at the
active transmit antenna connector, when the UE power is set to a minimum
value.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.4.3.1C.

#### 5.4.3D.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE minimum transmit power at the active carrier is
less than −50 dBm when the UE power is set to a minimum value.

An excess minimum output power increases the interference to other
channels, and decreases the system capacity.

#### 5.4.3D.4 Method of test

##### 5.4.3D.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and parameters are specified in
Annex C, clause C.10.2. The DL Reference Measurement Channel (F-H-Set 1)
is specified in Annex C.8.1.1.

3\) An HSDPA call with CLTD is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\]
7.3.17 with the following exception in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages
in table 5.4.3D.2. This exception allows the call to be setup with
initial UL CLTD activation state as state 2. RF parameters are set up
according to tables E.5.1 and table E.5.10. Settings for the serving
cell are defined in table 5.4.3D.1.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

Table 5.4.3D.1: Settings for the serving cell.

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.4.3D.4.1               |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

Table 5.4.3D.2: Contents of Radio bearer setup message

  ---------------------------------- -------------- ---------
  Information Element                Value/remark   Version
  Uplink CLTD info FDD                              Rel-11
  \- CHOICE *Mode*                   New            
  \- Initial CLTD activation state   Second state   
  ---------------------------------- -------------- ---------

See TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback test mode for HSDPA.

##### 5.4.3D.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set and send continuously Down power control commands to the UE.

2\) Start transmitting HSDPA data.

3\) Measure the mean power at active carrier of the UE.

4\) SS sends a HS-SCCH order activating UL\_CLTD activation state 3.

5\) Repeat step 1 to 3 for activation state 3.

#### 5.4.3D.5 Test requirements

The measured power at active carrier in activation state 2 and 3,
derived in step 3), shall be less than −49 dBm.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

### 5.4.4 Out-of-synchronisation handling of output power

#### 5.4.4.1 Definition and applicability

The receiver characteristics in this section are specified at the
antenna connector of the UE. For UEs with more than one receiver antenna
connector the AWGN signals applied to each receiver antenna connector
shall be uncorrelated. The levels of the test signal applied to each of
the antenna connectors shall be as defined in section 5.4.4.2 below.

The UE shall monitor the DPCCH quality in order to detect a loss of the
signal on Layer 1, as specified in TS 25.214 \[5\]. The thresholds Qout
and Qin specify at what DPCCH quality levels the UE shall shut its power
off and when it shall turn its power on respectively. The thresholds are
not defined explicitly, but are defined by the conditions under which
the UE shall shut its transmitter off and turn it on, as stated in this
clause.

The DPCCH quality shall be monitored in the UE and compared to the
thresholds Q~out~ and Q~in~ for the purpose of monitoring
synchronization. The threshold Q~out~ should correspond to a level of
DPCCH quality where no reliable detection of the TPC commands
transmitted on the downlink DPCCH can be made. This can be at a TPC
command error ratio level of e.g. 30%. The threshold Q~in~ should
correspond to a level of DPCCH quality where detection of the TPC
commands transmitted on the downlink DPCCH is significantly more
reliable than at Q~out~. This can be at a TPC command error ratio level
of e.g. 20%.

The requirements of this test apply to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE
and not supporting type 1 for DCH.

#### 5.4.4.2 Minimum Requirements

When the UE estimates the DPCCH quality or the quality of the TPC fields
of the F-DPCH frame received from the serving HS-DSCH cell over the last
160 ms period or quality of the TPC fields of the F-DPCH from the
serving HS-DSCH cell over the previous 240 slots in which the TPC
symbols are known to be present when the discontinuous uplink DPCCH
transmission operation is enabled to be worse than a threshold Q~out~,
the UE shall shut its transmitter off within 40 ms. The UE shall not
turn its transmitter on again until the DPCCH quality exceeds an
acceptable level Q~in~. When the UE estimates the DPCCH quality or the
quality of the TPC fields of the F-DPCH frame received from the serving
HS-DSCH cell over the last 160 ms period or quality of the TPC fields of
the F-DPCH from the serving HS-DSCH cell over the previous 240 slots in
which the TPC symbols are known to be present when the discontinuous
uplink DPCCH transmission operation is enabled to be better than a
threshold Q~in~, the UE shall again turn its transmitter on within 40
ms.

The UE transmitter shall be considered \"off\" if the transmitted power
is below the level defined in TS 25.101 \[1\] subclause 6.5.1 (Transmit
off power). Otherwise the transmitter shall be considered as \"on\".

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.4.4.1.

The quality levels at the thresholds Q~out~ and Q~in~ correspond to
different signal levels depending on the downlink conditions DCH
parameters. For the conditions in table 5.4.4.1, a signal with the
quality at the level Q~out~ can be generated by a DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio of
-25 dB, and a signal with Q~in~ by a DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio of -21 dB. The
DL reference measurement channel (12.2) kbps specified in
subclause C.3.1 and with static propagation conditions. The downlink
physical channels, other than those specified in table 5.4.4.1, are as
specified in table E.3.3 of Annex E.

Table 5.4.4.1: DCH parameters for test of Out-of-synch handling test
case

+-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+
| Parameter             | Value                   | Unit           |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+
|                       | −1                      | dB             |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+
|                       | −60                     | dBm / 3,84 MHz |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+
|                       | See Figure 5.4.4.1:     | dB             |
|                       | Before point A −16,6\   |                |
|                       | After point A Not       |                |
|                       | defined                 |                |
|                       |                         |                |
|                       | See note in clause      |                |
|                       | 5.4.4.3                 |                |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+
|                       | See table 5.4.4.2       | dB             |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+
| Information Data Rate | 12,2                    | kbps           |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+

Table 5.4.4.2: Minimum Requirements for DPCCH\_Ec/Ior levels

  ---------------------------- --------------- ------
  Clause from figure 5.4.4.1   DPCCH\_Ec/Ior   Unit
  Before A                     -16,6           dB
  A to B                       -22,0           dB
  B to D                       -28,0           dB
  D to E                       -24,0           dB
  After E                      -18,0           dB
  ---------------------------- --------------- ------

Figure 5.4.4.1 shows an example scenario where the DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio
varies from a level where the DPCH is demodulated under normal
conditions, down to a level below Q~out~ where the UE shall shut its
power off and then back up to a level above Q~in~ where the UE shall
turn the power back on.

![](media/image3.wmf){width="5.861805555555556in"
height="3.8604166666666666in"}

Figure 5.4.4.1: Test case for out-of-synch handling in the UE.

In this test case, the requirements for the UE are that:

1\. The UE shall not shut its transmitter off before point B.

2\. The UE shall shut its transmitter off before point C, which is Toff
= 200 ms after point B.

3\. The UE shall not turn its transmitter on between points C and E.

4\. The UE shall turn its transmitter on before point F, which is Ton =
200 ms after point E.

The reference for this test case is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 6.4.4.2.

#### 5.4.4.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE monitors the DPCCH quality and turns its
transmitter on or off according to DPCCH level diagram specified in
figure 5.4.4.1.

NOTE 1: DPDCH\_Ec/I~or~ after point A is not defined in table 5.4.4.1.
However it is assumed that DPDCH and DPCCH power level are same on DL
12,2 kbps reference measurement channel for testing. (PO1, PO2, and PO3
are zero.)

NOTE 2: The test case covers only the continuous uplink DPCCH
transmission scenario.

#### 5.4.4.4 Method of test

##### 5.4.4.4.1 Initial conditions {#initial-conditions-5 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.9.

2\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure in
TS34.108 \[3\], clause 7.3.2, with the following exception for
information elements in System Information Block type 1 specified in TS
34.108 \[3\], clause 6.1.0b.

Table 5.4.4.2A: System Information Block type 1 message

  ------------------------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element                         **Value/Remark**
  UE Timers and constants in connected mode   
  \- T313                                     15 seconds
  \- N313                                     200
  ------------------------------------------- ------------------

3\) DCH parameters are set up according to table 5.4.4.1 with
DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio level at -16,6 dB. The other RF parameters are set
up according to clause E.3.3.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 5.4.4.4.2 Procedure {#procedure-5 .H6}

1\) The SS sends continuously Up power control commands to the UE until
the UE transmitter power reach maximum level.

2\) The SS controls the DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio level according to clause
\'A to B\' as defined in table 5.4.4.3. The SS monitors the UE
transmitted power for 5 seconds and verifies that the UE transmitter is
not switched off during this time.

3\) The SS controls the DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio level according to clause
\'B to D\' as defined in table 5.4.4.3. The SS waits 200 ms and then
verifies that the UE transmitter has been switched off.

4\) The SS monitors the UE transmitted power for 5 seconds and verifies
that the UE transmitter is not switched on during this time.

5\) The SS controls the DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio level according to clause
\'D to E\' as defined in table 5.4.4.3. The SS monitors the UE
transmitted power for 5 s and verifies that the UE transmitter is not
switched on during this time.

6\) The SS controls the DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio level according to clause
\'After E\' as defined in table 5.4.4.3. The SS waits 200 ms and then
verifies that the UE transmitter has been switched on.

#### 5.4.4.5 Test requirements

Table 5.4.4.3: Test Requirements for DPCCH\_Ec/Ior levels

  ---------------------------- --------------- ------
  Clause from figure 5.4.4.1   DPCCH\_Ec/Ior   Unit
  Before A                     -16,6           dB
  A to B                       -21,6           dB
  B to D                       -28,4           dB
  D to E                       -24,4           dB
  After E                      -17,6           dB
  ---------------------------- --------------- ------

To pass the test, steps 1 through 6 of the procedure in clause 5.4.4.4.2
must be fulfilled.

The UE transmitter off criterion and its tolerances is defined in clause
5.5.1 (Transmit off power).

The UE transmitter on criterion and its tolerances is defined in clause
5.4.3 (Minimum Output Power). The UE transmitter is considered to be on
if the UE transmitted power is higher than minimum output power.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Test Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is given
in clause F.4.

### 5.4.4A Out-of-synchronization handling of output power for a UE which supports type1 for DCH

#### 5.4.4A.1 Definition and applicability

The receiver characteristics in this section are specified at the
antenna connector of the UE. For UEs with more than one receiver antenna
connector the AWGN signals applied to each receiver antenna connector
shall be uncorrelated. The levels of the test signal applied to each of
the antenna connectors shall be as defined in section 5.4.4A.2 below.

The UE shall monitor the DPCCH quality in order to detect a loss of the
signal on Layer 1, as specified in TS 25.214 \[5\]. The thresholds Qout
and Qin specify at what DPCCH quality levels the UE shall shut its power
off and when it shall turn its power on respectively. The thresholds are
not defined explicitly, but are defined by the conditions under which
the UE shall shut its transmitter off and turn it on, as stated in this
clause.

The DPCCH quality shall be monitored in the UE and compared to the
thresholds Q~out~ and Q~in~ for the purpose of monitoring
synchronization. The threshold Q~out~ should correspond to a level of
DPCCH quality where no reliable detection of the TPC commands
transmitted on the downlink DPCCH can be made. This can be at a TPC
command error ratio level of e.g. 30%. The threshold Q~in~ should
correspond to a level of DPCCH quality where detection of the TPC
commands transmitted on the downlink DPCCH is significantly more
reliable than at Q~out~. This can be at a TPC command error ratio level
of e.g. 20%.

The requirements of this test apply to UEs, which support the enhanced
receiver performance of type1 for DCH of UTRA for the FDD from Release 7
onwards.

#### 5.4.4A.2 Minimum requirement

When the UE estimates the DPCCH quality or the quality of the TPC fields
of the F-DPCH frame received from the serving HS-DSCH cell over the last
160 ms period or quality of the TPC fields of the F-DPCH from the
serving HS-DSCH cell over the previous 240 slots in which the TPC
symbols are known to be present when the discontinuous uplink DPCCH
transmission operation is enabled to be worse than a threshold Q~out~,
the UE shall shut its transmitter off within 40 ms. The UE shall not
turn its transmitter on again until the DPCCH quality exceeds an
acceptable level Q~in~. When the UE estimates the DPCCH quality or the
quality of the TPC fields of the F-DPCH frame received from the serving
HS-DSCH cell over the last 160 ms period or quality of the TPC fields of
the F-DPCH from the serving HS-DSCH cell over the previous 240 slots in
which the TPC symbols are known to be present when the discontinuous
uplink DPCCH transmission operation is enabled to be better than a
threshold Q~in~, the UE shall again turn its transmitter on within 40
ms.

The UE transmitter shall be considered \"off\" if the transmitted power
is below the level defined in TS 25.101 \[1\] subclause 6.5.1 (Transmit
off power). Otherwise the transmitter shall be considered as \"on\".

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.4.4.1.

The quality levels at the thresholds Q~out~ and Q~in~ correspond to
different signal levels depending on the downlink conditions DCH
parameters. For the conditions in Table 5.4.4A.1, a signal with the
quality at the level Q~out~ can be generated by a DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio of
-28 dB, and a signal with Q~in~ by a DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio of -24 dB. The
DL reference measurement channel (12.2) kbps specified in
subclause C.3.1 and with static propagation conditions. The downlink
physical channels, other than those specified in Table 5.4.4A.1, are as
specified in Table E.3.3 of Annex E.

Table 5.4.4A.1: DCH parameters for the Out-of-synch handling test case

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Value                    |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| ![                       | dB           | -1                       |
| ](media/image4.wmf){widt |              |                          |
| h="0.4722222222222222in" |              |                          |
| height                   |              |                          |
| ="0.2361111111111111in"} |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| ![                       | dBm/3.84 MHz | -60                      |
| ](media/image5.wmf){widt |              |                          |
| h="0.2222222222222222in" |              |                          |
| height=                  |              |                          |
| "0.20833333333333334in"} |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| ![                       | dB           | See figure 5.4.4A.1:     |
| ](media/image6.wmf){widt |              | Before point A           |
| h="0.8215277777777777in" |              |                          |
| height=                  |              | -19.6\                   |
| "0.37430555555555556in"} |              | After point A Not        |
|                          |              | defined                  |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| ![                       |              | See table 5.4.4A.2       |
| ](media/image7.wmf){widt |              |                          |
| h="0.8215277777777777in" |              |                          |
| height=                  |              |                          |
| "0.37430555555555556in"} |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Information Data Rate    | kbps         | 12.2                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

Table 5.4.4A.2: Minimum Requirements for DPCCH\_Ec/Ior levels

+-----------------------------+------------------------------+------+
| Clause from figure 5.4.4A.1 | DPCCH\_Ec/Ior                | Unit |
|                             |                              |      |
|                             | (UE, supporting enhanced     |      |
|                             | performance requirements     |      |
|                             | type 1 for DCH)              |      |
+-----------------------------+------------------------------+------+
| Before A                    | -19.6                        | dB   |
+-----------------------------+------------------------------+------+
| A to B                      | -25.0                        | dB   |
+-----------------------------+------------------------------+------+
| B to D                      | -31.0                        | dB   |
+-----------------------------+------------------------------+------+
| D to E                      | -27.0                        | dB   |
+-----------------------------+------------------------------+------+
| After E                     | -21.0                        | dB   |
+-----------------------------+------------------------------+------+

Figure 5.4.4A.1 shows an example scenario for a UE which supports the
optional enhanced performance requirements type1 for DCH, where the
DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio varies from a level where the DPCH is demodulated
under normal conditions, down to a level below Q~out~ where the UE shall
shut its power off and then back up to a level above Q~in~ where the UE
shall turn the power back on.

![](media/image8.wmf){width="6.392361111111111in"
height="4.011805555555555in"}

Figure 5.4.4A.1: Test case for out-of-synch handling in the UE
supporting\
the enhanced performance requirements type1 for DCH

In this test case, the requirements for the UE are that:

1\. The UE shall not shut its transmitter off before point B.

2\. The UE shall shut its transmitter off before point C, which is
T~off~ = 200 ms after point B.

3\. The UE shall not turn its transmitter on between points C and E.

4\. The UE shall turn its transmitter on before point F, which is T~on~
= 200 ms after point E.

#### 5.4.4A.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE monitors the DPCCH quality and turns its
transmitter on or off according to DPCCH level diagram specified in
figure 5.4.4A.1.

NOTE 1: DPDCH\_Ec/I~or~ after point A is not defined in table 5.4.4A.1.
However it is assumed that DPDCH and DPCCH power level are same on DL
12,2 kbps reference measurement channel for testing. (PO1, PO2, and PO3
are zero.)

NOTE 2: The test case covers only the continuous uplink DPCCH
transmission scenario.

#### 5.4.4A.4 Method of test

##### 5.4.4A.4.1 Initial conditions {#a.4.1-initial-conditions-5 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.9 or
figure A.26 in case of a UE, supporting enhanced performance
requirements type 1 for DCH, equipped with RX-diversity.

2\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure in
TS34.108 \[3\], clause 7.3.2, with the following exception for
information elements in System Information Block type 1 specified in TS
34.108 \[3\], clause 6.1.0b.

Table 5.4.4A.2A: System Information Block type 1 message

  ------------------------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element                         **Value/Remark**
  UE Timers and constants in connected mode   
  \- T313                                     15 seconds
  \- N313                                     200
  ------------------------------------------- ------------------

3\) DCH parameters are set up according to table 5.4.4A.1 with
DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio level at -19,6 dB. The other RF parameters are set
up according to clause E.3.3.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 5.4.4A.4.2 Procedure {#a.4.2-procedure-5 .H6}

1\) The SS sends continuously Up power control commands to the UE until
the UE transmitter power reach maximum level.

2\) The SS controls the DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio level according to clause
\'A to B\' as defined in table 5.4.4A.3. The SS monitors the UE
transmitted power for 5 seconds and verifies that the UE transmitter is
not switched off during this time.

3\) The SS controls the DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio level according to clause
\'B to D\' as defined in table 5.4.4A.3. The SS waits 200 ms and then
verifies that the UE transmitter has been switched off.

4\) The SS monitors the UE transmitted power for 5 seconds and verifies
that the UE transmitter is not switched on during this time.

5\) The SS controls the DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio level according to clause
\'D to E\' as defined in table 5.4.4A.3. The SS monitors the UE
transmitted power for 5 s and verifies that the UE transmitter is not
switched on during this time.

6\) The SS controls the DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio level according to clause
\'After E\' as defined in table 5.4.4A.3. The SS waits 200 ms and then
verifies that the UE transmitter has been switched on.

#### 5.4.4A.5 Test requirements

Table 5.4.4A.3: Test Requirements for DPCCH\_Ec/Ior levels

+-----------------------------+------------------------------+------+
| Clause from figure 5.4.4A.1 | DPCCH\_Ec/Ior                | Unit |
|                             |                              |      |
|                             | (UE, supporting enhanced     |      |
|                             | performance requirements     |      |
|                             | type 1)                      |      |
+-----------------------------+------------------------------+------+
| Before A                    | -19.6                        | dB   |
+-----------------------------+------------------------------+------+
| A to B                      | -24.6                        | dB   |
+-----------------------------+------------------------------+------+
| B to D                      | -31.4                        | dB   |
+-----------------------------+------------------------------+------+
| D to E                      | -27.4                        | dB   |
+-----------------------------+------------------------------+------+
| After E                     | -20.6                        | dB   |
+-----------------------------+------------------------------+------+

To pass the test, steps 1 through 6 of the procedure in clause
5.4.4A.4.2 must be fulfilled.

The UE transmitter off criterion and its tolerances is defined in clause
5.5.1 (Transmit off power).

The UE transmitter on criterion and its tolerances is defined in clause
5.4.3 (Minimum Output Power). The UE transmitter is considered to be on
if the UE transmitted power is higher than minimum output power.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Test Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is given
in clause F.4.

### 5.4.4B Out-of-synchronisation handling of output power for OLTD

Editor's note: This clause is incomplete. The following aspects are
either missing or not yet determined:

-   Test procedure is FFS

-   Reference Measurement Channel is FFS

#### 5.4.4B.1 Definition and applicability

The receiver characteristics in this section are specified at the
antenna connector of the UE. For UEs with more than one receiver antenna
connector the AWGN signals applied to each receiver antenna connector
shall be uncorrelated. The levels of the test signal applied to each of
the antenna connectors shall be as defined in section 5.4.4B.2 below.

The UE shall monitor the DPCCH quality in order to detect a loss of the
signal on Layer 1, as specified in TS 25.214 \[5\]. The thresholds Qout
and Qin specify at what DPCCH quality levels the UE shall shut its power
off and when it shall turn its power on respectively. The thresholds are
not defined explicitly, but are defined by the conditions under which
the UE shall shut its transmitter off and turn it on, as stated in this
clause.

The DPCCH quality shall be monitored in the UE and compared to the
thresholds Q~out~ and Q~in~ for the purpose of monitoring
synchronization. The threshold Q~out~ should correspond to a level of
DPCCH quality where no reliable detection of the TPC commands
transmitted on the downlink DPCCH can be made. This can be at a TPC
command error ratio level of e.g. 30%. The threshold Q~in~ should
correspond to a level of DPCCH quality where detection of the TPC
commands transmitted on the downlink DPCCH is significantly more
reliable than at Q~out~. This can be at a TPC command error ratio level
of e.g. 20%.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL OLTD and not
supporting type 1 for DCH.

#### 5.4.4B.2 Minimum Requirements

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL OLTD, the
minimum requirements specified below apply at each transmit antenna
connector.

When the UE estimates the DPCCH quality or the quality of the TPC fields
of the F-DPCH frame received from the serving HS-DSCH cell over the last
160 ms period or quality of the TPC fields of the F-DPCH from the
serving HS-DSCH cell over the previous 240 slots in which the TPC
symbols are known to be present when the discontinuous uplink DPCCH
transmission operation is enabled to be worse than a threshold Q~out~,
the UE shall shut its transmitter off within 40 ms. The UE shall not
turn its transmitter on again until the DPCCH quality exceeds an
acceptable level Q~in~. When the UE estimates the DPCCH quality or the
quality of the TPC fields of the F-DPCH frame received from the serving
HS-DSCH cell over the last 160 ms period or quality of the TPC fields of
the F-DPCH from the serving HS-DSCH cell over the previous 240 slots in
which the TPC symbols are known to be present when the discontinuous
uplink DPCCH transmission operation is enabled to be better than a
threshold Q~in~, the UE shall again turn its transmitter on within 40
ms.

The UE transmitter shall be considered \"off\" if the transmitted power
is below the level defined in TS 25.101 \[1\] subclause 6.5.1 (Transmit
off power). Otherwise the transmitter shall be considered as \"on\".

The quality levels at the thresholds Q~out~ and Q~in~ correspond to
different signal levels depending on the downlink conditions DCH
parameters. For the conditions in table 5.4.4B.1, a signal with the
quality at the level Q~out~ can be generated by a DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio of
-25 dB, and a signal with Q~in~ by a DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio of -21 dB. The
DL reference measurement channel (12.2) kbps specified in
subclause C.3.1 and with static propagation conditions. The downlink
physical channels, other than those specified in table 5.4.4B.1, are as
specified in table E.3.3 of Annex E.

Table 5.4.4B.1: DCH parameters for test of Out-of-synch handling test
case

+-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+
| Parameter             | Value                   | Unit           |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+
|                       | −1                      | dB             |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+
|                       | −60                     | dBm / 3,84 MHz |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+
|                       | See Figure 5.4.4B.1:    | dB             |
|                       | Before point A −16,6\   |                |
|                       | After point A Not       |                |
|                       | defined                 |                |
|                       |                         |                |
|                       | See note in clause      |                |
|                       | 5.4.4B.3                |                |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+
|                       | See table 5.4.4B.2      | dB             |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+
| Information Data Rate | 12,2                    | Kbps           |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+

Table 5.4.4B.2: Minimum Requirements for DPCCH\_Ec/Ior levels

  ----------------------------- --------------- ------
  Clause from figure 5.4.4B.1   DPCCH\_Ec/Ior   Unit
  Before A                      -16,6           dB
  A to B                        -22,0           dB
  B to D                        -28,0           dB
  D to E                        -24,0           dB
  After E                       -18,0           dB
  ----------------------------- --------------- ------

Figure 5.4.4B.1 shows an example scenario where the DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio
varies from a level where the DPCH is demodulated under normal
conditions, down to a level below Q~out~ where the UE shall shut its
power off and then back up to a level above Q~in~ where the UE shall
turn the power back on.

![](media/image3.wmf){width="5.861805555555556in"
height="3.8631944444444444in"}

Figure 5.4.4B.1: Test case for out-of-synch handling in the UE

In this test case, the requirements for the UE are that:

1\. The UE shall not shut its transmitter off before point B.

2\. The UE shall shut its transmitter off before point C, which is Toff
= 200 ms after point B.

3\. The UE shall not turn its transmitter on between points C and E.

4\. The UE shall turn its transmitter on before point F, which is Ton =
200 ms after point E.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.4.4.1A.

#### 5.4.4B.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE monitors the DPCCH quality and turns its
transmitter on or off according to DPCCH level diagram specified in
figure 5.4.4B.1.

NOTE 1: DPDCH\_Ec/I~or~ after point A is not defined in table 5.4.4B.1.
However it is assumed that DPDCH and DPCCH power level are same on DL
12,2 kbps reference measurement channel for testing. (PO1, PO2, and PO3
are zero.)

NOTE 2: The test case covers only the continuous uplink DPCCH
transmission scenario.

#### 5.4.4B.4 Method of test

##### 5.4.4B.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.52.

2\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure in
TS34.108 \[3\], clause7.1.18, with the following exception for
information elements in System Information Block type 1 specified in TS
34.108 \[3\], clause 6.1.0b.

Table 5.4.4B.2A: System Information Block type 1 message

  ------------------------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element                         **Value/Remark**
  UE Timers and constants in connected mode   
  \- T313                                     15 seconds
  \- N313                                     200
  ------------------------------------------- ------------------

3\) DCH parameters are set up according to table 5.4.4B.1 with
DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio level at -16,6 dB. The other RF parameters are set
up according to clause E.3.3.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 5.4.4B.4.2 Procedure

FFS

#### 5.4.4B.5 Test requirements

Table 5.4.4B.3: Test Requirements for DPCCH\_Ec/Ior levels

  ----------------------------- --------------- ------
  Clause from figure 5.4.4B.1   DPCCH\_Ec/Ior   Unit
  Before A                      -16,6+TT        dB
  A to B                        -21,6+TT        dB
  B to D                        -28,4+TT        dB
  D to E                        -24,4+TT        dB
  After E                       -17,6+TT        dB
  ----------------------------- --------------- ------

To pass the test, steps 1 through 6 of the procedure in clause
5.4.4B.4.2 must be fulfilled.

The UE transmitter off criterion and its tolerances is defined in clause
5.5.1 (Transmit off power).

The UE transmitter on criterion and its tolerances is defined in clause
5.4.3 (Minimum Output Power). The UE transmitter is considered to be on
if the UE transmitted power is higher than minimum output power.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Test Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is given
in clause F.4.

### 5.4.4C Out-of-synchronisation handling of output power for UL CLTD activation state 1

Editor's note: This clause is incomplete. The following aspects are
either missing or not yet determined:

-   Message Contents are FFS.

-   Reference Measurement Channel's to be defined

-   Call Setup procedure, test procedure, test tolerances may need an
    update.

-   Update of Annexure is FFS

#### 5.4.4C.1 Definition and applicability

The receiver characteristics in this section are specified at the
antenna connector of the UE. For UEs with more than one receiver antenna
connector the AWGN signals applied to each receiver antenna connector
shall be uncorrelated. The levels of the test signal applied to each of
the antenna connectors shall be as defined in section 5.4.4C.2 below.

The UE shall monitor the DPCCH quality in order to detect a loss of the
signal on Layer 1, as specified in TS 25.214 \[5\]. The thresholds Qout
and Qin specify at what DPCCH quality levels the UE shall shut its power
off and when it shall turn its power on respectively. The thresholds are
not defined explicitly, but are defined by the conditions under which
the UE shall shut its transmitter off and turn it on, as stated in this
clause.

The DPCCH quality shall be monitored in the UE and compared to the
thresholds Q~out~ and Q~in~ for the purpose of monitoring
synchronization. The threshold Q~out~ should correspond to a level of
DPCCH quality where no reliable detection of the TPC commands
transmitted on the downlink DPCCH can be made. This can be at a TPC
command error ratio level of e.g. 30%. The threshold Q~in~ should
correspond to a level of DPCCH quality where detection of the TPC
commands transmitted on the downlink DPCCH is significantly more
reliable than at Q~out~. This can be at a TPC command error ratio level
of e.g. 20%.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL CLTD and not
supporting type 1 for DCH.

#### 5.4.4C.2 Minimum Requirements

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL CLTD activation
state 1, the minimum requirements specified below apply at each transmit
antenna connector.

When the UE estimates the DPCCH quality or the quality of the TPC fields
of the F-DPCH frame received from the serving HS-DSCH cell over the last
160 ms period or quality of the TPC fields of the F-DPCH from the
serving HS-DSCH cell over the previous 240 slots in which the TPC
symbols are known to be present when the discontinuous uplink DPCCH
transmission operation is enabled to be worse than a threshold Q~out~,
the UE shall shut its transmitter off within 40 ms. The UE shall not
turn its transmitter on again until the DPCCH quality exceeds an
acceptable level Q~in~. When the UE estimates the DPCCH quality or the
quality of the TPC fields of the F-DPCH frame received from the serving
HS-DSCH cell over the last 160 ms period or quality of the TPC fields of
the F-DPCH from the serving HS-DSCH cell over the previous 240 slots in
which the TPC symbols are known to be present when the discontinuous
uplink DPCCH transmission operation is enabled to be better than a
threshold Q~in~, the UE shall again turn its transmitter on within 40
ms.

The UE transmitter shall be considered \"off\" if the transmitted power
is below the level defined in TS 25.101 \[1\] subclause 6.5.1 (Transmit
off power). Otherwise the transmitter shall be considered as \"on\".

The quality levels at the thresholds Q~out~ and Q~in~ correspond to
different signal levels depending on the downlink conditions DCH
parameters. For the conditions in table 5.4.4C.1, a signal with the
quality at the level Q~out~ can be generated by a DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio of
-25 dB, and a signal with Q~in~ by a DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio of -21 dB. The
DL reference measurement channel (12.2) kbps specified in
subclause C.3.1 and with static propagation conditions. The downlink
physical channels, other than those specified in table 5.4.4C.1, are as
specified in table E.3.3 of Annex E.

Table 5.4.4C.1: DCH parameters for test of Out-of-synch handling test
case

+-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+
| Parameter             | Value                   | Unit           |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+
|                       | −1                      | dB             |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+
|                       | −60                     | dBm / 3,84 MHz |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+
|                       | See Figure 5.4.4C.1:    | dB             |
|                       | Before point A −16,6\   |                |
|                       | After point A Not       |                |
|                       | defined                 |                |
|                       |                         |                |
|                       | See note in clause      |                |
|                       | 5.4.4C.3                |                |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+
|                       | See table 5.4.4C.2      | dB             |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+
| Information Data Rate | 12,2                    | kbps           |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+

Table 5.4.4C.2: Minimum Requirements for DPCCH\_Ec/Ior levels

  ----------------------------- --------------- ------
  Clause from figure 5.4.4C.1   DPCCH\_Ec/Ior   Unit
  Before A                      -16,6           dB
  A to B                        -22,0           dB
  B to D                        -28,0           dB
  D to E                        -24,0           dB
  After E                       -18,0           dB
  ----------------------------- --------------- ------

Figure 5.4.4C.1 shows an example scenario where the DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio
varies from a level where the DPCH is demodulated under normal
conditions, down to a level below Q~out~ where the UE shall shut its
power off and then back up to a level above Q~in~ where the UE shall
turn the power back on.

![](media/image3.wmf){width="5.861805555555556in"
height="3.8604166666666666in"}

Figure 5.4.4C.1: Test case for out-of-synch handling in the UE

In this test case, the requirements for the UE are that:

1\. The UE shall not shut its transmitter off before point B.

2\. The UE shall shut its transmitter off before point C, which is Toff
= 200 ms after point B.

3\. The UE shall not turn its transmitter on between points C and E.

4\. The UE shall turn its transmitter on before point F, which is Ton =
200 ms after point E.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.4.4.1B.

#### 5.4.4C.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE monitors the DPCCH quality and turns its
transmitter on or off according to DPCCH level diagram specified in
figure 5.4.4C.1.

NOTE 1: DPDCH\_Ec/I~or~ after point A is not defined in table 5.4.4C.1.
However it is assumed that DPDCH and DPCCH power level are same on DL
12,2 kbps reference measurement channel for testing. (PO1, PO2, and PO3
are zero.)

NOTE 2: The test case covers only the continuous uplink DPCCH
transmission scenario.

#### 5.4.4C.4 Method of test

##### 5.4.4C.4.1 Initial conditions {#c.4.1-initial-conditions-4 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.52.

2\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure in
TS34.108 \[3\], clause FFS, with the following exception for information
elements in System Information Block type 1 specified in TS 34.108
\[3\], clause 6.1.0b.

Table 5.4.4C.2A: System Information Block type 1 message

  ------------------------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element                         **Value/Remark**
  UE Timers and constants in connected mode   
  \- T313                                     15 seconds
  \- N313                                     200
  ------------------------------------------- ------------------

4\) DCH parameters are set up according to table 5.4.4C.1 with
DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio level at -16,6 dB. The other RF parameters are set
up according to clause E.3.3.

5\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 5.4.4C.4.2 Procedure {#c.4.2-procedure-4 .H6}

1\) The SS sends continuously up power control commands to the UE until
the UE transmitter power reach maximum level.

2\) The SS controls the DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio level according to clause
\'A to B\' as defined in table 5.4.4C.3. The SS monitors the UE
transmitted power for 5 seconds and verifies that the UE transmitter is
not switched off during this time.

3\) The SS controls the DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio level according to clause
\'B to D\' as defined in table 5.4.4C.3. The SS waits 200 ms and checks
at each transmit antenna connector to verify that the UE transmitter has
been switched off .

4\) The SS monitors the UE transmitted power for 5 seconds and verifies
that the UE transmitter is not switched on during this time.

5\) The SS controls the DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio level according to clause
\'D to E\' as defined in table 5.4.4C.3. The SS monitors the UE
transmitted power for 5 s and verifies that the UE transmitter is not
switched on during this time.

6\) The SS controls the DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio level according to clause
\'After E\' as defined in table 5.4.4C.3. The SS waits 200 ms and checks
at each transmit antenna connector to verify that the UE transmitter has
been switched on.

#### 5.4.4C.5 Test requirements

Table 5.4.4C.3: Test Requirements for DPCCH\_Ec/Ior levels

  ----------------------------- --------------- ------
  Clause from figure 5.4.4C.1   DPCCH\_Ec/Ior   Unit
  Before A                      -16,6+TT        dB
  A to B                        -21,6+TT        dB
  B to D                        -28,4+TT        dB
  D to E                        -24,4+TT        dB
  After E                       -17,6+TT        dB
  ----------------------------- --------------- ------

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL CLTD activation
state 1, the test requirements specified in Table 5.4.4C.3 apply at each
transmit antenna connector.

To pass the test, steps 1 through 6 of the procedure in clause
5.4.4C.4.2 must be fulfilled.

The UE transmitter off criterion and its tolerances is defined in clause
5.5.1 (Transmit off power).

The UE transmitter on criterion and its tolerances is defined in clause
5.4.3 (Minimum Output Power). The UE transmitter is considered to be on
if the UE transmitted power is higher than minimum output power.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Test Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is given
in clause F.4.

### 5.4.4D Out-of-synchronisation handling of output power for UL CLTD activation state 2 and 3

Editor's note: This clause is incomplete. The following aspects are
either missing or not yet determined:

-   Message Contents are FFS.

-   Reference Measurement Channel's to be defined

-   Call Setup procedure, test procedure, test tolerances may need an
    update.

-   Update of Annexure is FFS

#### 5.4.4D.1 Definition and applicability

The receiver characteristics in this section are specified at the
antenna connector of the UE. For UEs with more than one receiver antenna
connector the AWGN signals applied to each receiver antenna connector
shall be uncorrelated. The levels of the test signal applied to each of
the antenna connectors shall be as defined in section 5.4.4D.2 below.

The UE shall monitor the DPCCH quality in order to detect a loss of the
signal on Layer 1, as specified in TS 25.214 \[5\]. The thresholds Qout
and Qin specify at what DPCCH quality levels the UE shall shut its power
off and when it shall turn its power on respectively. The thresholds are
not defined explicitly, but are defined by the conditions under which
the UE shall shut its transmitter off and turn it on, as stated in this
clause.

The DPCCH quality shall be monitored in the UE and compared to the
thresholds Q~out~ and Q~in~ for the purpose of monitoring
synchronization. The threshold Q~out~ should correspond to a level of
DPCCH quality where no reliable detection of the TPC commands
transmitted on the downlink DPCCH can be made. This can be at a TPC
command error ratio level of e.g. 30%. The threshold Q~in~ should
correspond to a level of DPCCH quality where detection of the TPC
commands transmitted on the downlink DPCCH is significantly more
reliable than at Q~out~. This can be at a TPC command error ratio level
of e.g. 20%.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL CLTD and not
supporting type 1 for DCH.

#### 5.4.4D.2 Minimum Requirements

For UE configured in UL CLTD activation state 2 or activation state 3,
the minimum requirements specified below apply at the active transmit
antenna connector.

When the UE estimates the DPCCH quality or the quality of the TPC fields
of the F-DPCH frame received from the serving HS-DSCH cell over the last
160 ms period or quality of the TPC fields of the F-DPCH from the
serving HS-DSCH cell over the previous 240 slots in which the TPC
symbols are known to be present when the discontinuous uplink DPCCH
transmission operation is enabled to be worse than a threshold Q~out~,
the UE shall shut its transmitter off within 40 ms. The UE shall not
turn its transmitter on again until the DPCCH quality exceeds an
acceptable level Q~in~. When the UE estimates the DPCCH quality or the
quality of the TPC fields of the F-DPCH frame received from the serving
HS-DSCH cell over the last 160 ms period or quality of the TPC fields of
the F-DPCH from the serving HS-DSCH cell over the previous 240 slots in
which the TPC symbols are known to be present when the discontinuous
uplink DPCCH transmission operation is enabled to be better than a
threshold Q~in~, the UE shall again turn its transmitter on within 40
ms.

The UE transmitter shall be considered \"off\" if the transmitted power
is below the level defined in TS 25.101 \[1\] subclause 6.5.1 (Transmit
off power). Otherwise the transmitter shall be considered as \"on\".

The quality levels at the thresholds Q~out~ and Q~in~ correspond to
different signal levels depending on the downlink conditions DCH
parameters. For the conditions in table 5.4.4D.1, a signal with the
quality at the level Q~out~ can be generated by a DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio of
-25 dB, and a signal with Q~in~ by a DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio of -21 dB. The
DL reference measurement channel (12.2) kbps specified in
subclause C.3.1 and with static propagation conditions. The downlink
physical channels, other than those specified in table 5.4.4D.1, are as
specified in table FFS of Annex E.

Table 5.4.4D.1: DCH parameters for test of Out-of-synch handling test
case

+-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+
| Parameter             | Value                   | Unit           |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+
|                       | −1                      | dB             |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+
|                       | −60                     | dBm / 3,84 MHz |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+
|                       | See Figure 5.4.4D.1:    | dB             |
|                       | Before point A −16,6\   |                |
|                       | After point A Not       |                |
|                       | defined                 |                |
|                       |                         |                |
|                       | See note in clause      |                |
|                       | 5.4.4D.3                |                |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+
|                       | See table 5.4.4D.2      | dB             |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+
| Information Data Rate | 12,2                    | kbps           |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+

Table 5.4.4D.2: Minimum Requirements for DPCCH\_Ec/Ior levels

  ----------------------------- --------------- ------
  Clause from figure 5.4.4D.1   DPCCH\_Ec/Ior   Unit
  Before A                      -16,6           dB
  A to B                        -22,0           dB
  B to D                        -28,0           dB
  D to E                        -24,0           dB
  After E                       -18,0           dB
  ----------------------------- --------------- ------

Figure 5.4.4D.1 shows an example scenario where the DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio
varies from a level where the DPCH is demodulated under normal
conditions, down to a level below Q~out~ where the UE shall shut its
power off and then back up to a level above Q~in~ where the UE shall
turn the power back on.

![](media/image3.wmf){width="5.861805555555556in"
height="3.8604166666666666in"}

Figure 5.4.4D.1: Test case for out-of-synch handling in the UE.

In this test case, the requirements for the UE are that:

1\. The UE shall not shut its transmitter off before point B.

2\. The UE shall shut its transmitter off before point C, which is Toff
= 200 ms after point B.

3\. The UE shall not turn its transmitter on between points C and E.

4\. The UE shall turn its transmitter on before point F, which is Ton =
200 ms after point E.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.4.4.1B.

#### 5.4.4D.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE monitors the DPCCH quality and turns its
transmitter on or off according to DPCCH level diagram specified in
figure 5.4.4D.1.

NOTE 1: DPDCH\_Ec/I~or~ after point A is not defined in table 5.4.4D.1.
However it is assumed that DPDCH and DPCCH power level are same on DL
12,2 kbps reference measurement channel for testing. (PO1, PO2, and PO3
are zero.)

NOTE 2: The test case covers only the continuous uplink DPCCH
transmission scenario.

#### 5.4.4D.4 Method of test

##### 5.4.4D.4.1 Initial conditions {#d.4.1-initial-conditions-4 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.52.

2\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure in
TS34.108 \[3\], clause 7.3.17, with the following exception for RADIO
BEARER SETUP message and for information elements in System Information
Block type 1 specified in TS 34.108 \[3\], clause 6.1.0b.

Table 5.4.4D.2A: System Information Block type 1 message

  ------------------------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element                         **Value/Remark**
  UE Timers and constants in connected mode   
  \- T313                                     15 seconds
  \- N313                                     200
  ------------------------------------------- ------------------

Table 5.4.4D.2B: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA)

+----------------------------------+--------------+---------+
| Information Element              | Value/remark | Version |
+----------------------------------+--------------+---------+
| Uplink CLTD info FDD             |              | Rel-11  |
+----------------------------------+--------------+---------+
| \- CHOICE *Mode*                 | New          |         |
+----------------------------------+--------------+---------+
| \- S-DPCCH Info                  |              |         |
+----------------------------------+--------------+---------+
| > \- S-DPCCH/DPCCH power offset  | 0            |         |
+----------------------------------+--------------+---------+
| \- Initial CLTD activation state | Second state |         |
+----------------------------------+--------------+---------+

3\) DCH parameters are set up according to table 5.4.4D.1 with
DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio level at -16,6 dB. The other RF parameters are set
up according to clause FFS.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 5.4.4D.4.2 Procedure {#d.4.2-procedure-4 .H6}

FFS

#### 5.4.4D.5 Test requirements

Table 5.4.4D.3: Test Requirements for DPCCH\_Ec/Ior levels

  ----------------------------- --------------- ------
  Clause from figure 5.4.4D.1   DPCCH\_Ec/Ior   Unit
  Before A                      -16,6+TT        dB
  A to B                        -21,6+TT        dB
  B to D                        -28,4+TT        dB
  D to E                        -24,4+TT        dB
  After E                       -17,6+TT        dB
  ----------------------------- --------------- ------

For UE configured in UL CLTD activation state 2 or activation state 3,
the test requirements specified in Table 5.4.4D.3 apply at the active
transmit antenna connector.

To pass the test, steps 1 through 6 of the procedure in clause
5.4.4D.4.2 must be fulfilled.

The UE transmitter off criterion and its tolerances is defined in clause
5.5.1 (Transmit off power).

The UE transmitter on criterion and its tolerances is defined in clause
5.4.3 (Minimum Output Power). The UE transmitter is considered to be on
if the UE transmitted power is higher than minimum output power.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Test Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is given
in clause F.4.

5.4.5 Out of quality handling of TPI for UL CLTD activation state 1
-------------------------------------------------------------------

#### 5.4.5.1 Definition and applicability

An F-TPICH carries transmitted precoding indicator generated at layer 1
for UL CLTD operation.

The UE shall measure the reliability of the received TPI bits over the 3
slot period in which the TPI bit pattern corresponding to a precoding
weight is received, as specified in TS 25.214 \[8\]. The received TPI
bits are mapped to precoding weights and applied by the UE only if the
estimated quality of the TPI bits is determined to be better than a
threshold Q~tpi~. Otherwise, the UE shall apply the precoding weights
corresponding to the last reliably received TPI bit pattern. The
threshold is not defined explicitly, but is defined by the conditions
under which the UE shall apply the precoding weights corresponding to
the received TPI bits and apply the precoding weights corresponding to
the last reliably received TPI bits, as stated in this subclause.

The threshold Q~tpi~ should correspond to a level of F-TPICH quality
below which no reliable detection of the TPI bits transmitted on the
downlink DPCCH can be made.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL CLTD and HSDPA.

#### 5.4.5.2 Minimum Requirements

When the UE estimates the F-TPICH quality received over the 3 slot
period to be worse than a threshold Q~tpi~, the UE shall apply the
precoding weights corresponding to the last reliably received TPI bit
pattern. The UE shall not apply the precoding weights corresponding to
the received TPI bits again until the F-TPICH quality exceeds a
threshold Q~tpi~. When the estimated F-TPICH quality is better than a
threshold Q~tpi~, the UE shall again apply the precoding weights
corresponding to the received TPI bits.

The quality level at the threshold Q~tpi~ corresponds to a signal level
depending on the downlink conditions F-TPICH parameters. For the
conditions in Table 5.4.5.1, a signal with the quality below the level
Q~tpi~ can be generated by an F-TPICH\_Ec/Ior ratio of -26 dB, and a
signal with the quality above the level Q~tpi~ can be generated by an
F-TPICH\_Ec/Ior ratio of -12 dB. The downlink physical channels, other
than those specified in Table 5.4.5.1, are as specified in table E.3.3
of Annex E.

Table 5.4.5.1: Parameters for the out-of-quality handling of F-TPICH
test case

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- --------------------
  Parameter                                                                  Unit           Value
  Propagation condition                                                                     Static
  ![](media/image9.wmf){width="0.46875in" height="0.23958333333333334in"}    dB             -1
  ![](media/image10.wmf){width="0.21875in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   dBm/3.84 MHz   -60
                                                                             dB             See figure 5.4.5.1
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- --------------------

Table 5.4.5.2: Minimum Requirements for F-TPICH\_Ec/Ior levels

  ---------------------------- --------------- ------
  Clause from Figure 5.4.5.1   DPCCH\_Ec/Ior   Unit
  Before A                     -7              dB
  A to C                       -26             dB
  After C                      -12             dB
  ---------------------------- --------------- ------

Figure 5.4.5.1 shows an example scenario where the F-TPICH\_Ec/Ior ratio
varies from a level where the F-TPICH is demodulated under normal
conditions, down to a level below Q~tpi~ where the UE shall apply the
precoding weights corresponding to the last reliably received TPI bit
pattern and then back up to a level above Q~tpi~ where the UE shall
apply the precoding weights corresponding to the received TPI bit
pattern. Point B shall be at least 10 ms after point A, and point D
shall be at least 10 ms after point C.

Figure 5.4.5.1: Test case for F-TPICH out-of-quality handling in the UE
supporting the minimum requirements for F-TPICH

In these test cases, the requirements for the UE are that:

1\. The UE shall keep precoding weights with more than 50% of the time
between point B and point C.

2\. The UE apply precoding weights w.r.t. TPI bits with more than 99% of
the time after point D.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.4A.1.

#### 5.4.5.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE monitors the F-TPICH quality and in turns apply
the precoding weights as per level diagram specified in figure 5.4.5.1
and as per test requirement.

#### 5.4.5.4 Method of test

##### 5.4.5.4.1 Initial conditions {#initial-conditions-6 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.52.

2\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure in
TS34.108 \[3\], clause 7.3.17.

4\) RF parameters are set up according to table 5.4.5.1 with
F-TPICH\_Ec/Ior ratio level set according to the figure 5.4.5.1. The
other RF parameters are set up according to clause E.3.3.

5\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 5.4.5.4.2 Procedure {#procedure-6 .H6}

1\) The SS controls and maintains the F-TPICH\_Ec/Ior ratio level
according to clause \'Before A\' as defined in table 5.4.5.3 and sends
TPI bits set to the fixed precoder weight corresponding to bit pattern
"1100" for about 50 ms.

2\) The SS controls and maintains the F-TPICH\_Ec/Ior ratio level
according to clause \'A to C\' as defined in table 5.4.5.3 and sends TPI
bit pattern as "1111" for 100 ms. The SS waits 10 ms after point A and
then verifies that UE shall keep precoding weights corresponding to TPI
bits pattern "1100" with more than 50% of the time till point C shown in
figure 5.4.5.1.

3\) The SS controls and maintains the F-TPICH\_Ec/Ior ratio level
according to clause \'After C\' as defined in table 5.4.5.3 and sends
TPI bit pattern as "0011" for 50 ms. The SS waits 10 ms after point C
and then verifies that UE apply precoding weights w.r.t. TPI bits
pattern "0011" with more than 99% of the time after point C shown in
figure 5.4.5.1

#### 5.4.5.5 Test requirements

Table 5.4.5.3: Test Requirements for F-TPICH\_Ec/Ior levels

  ---------------------------- ----------------- ------
  Clause from figure 5.4.5.1   F-TPICH\_Ec/Ior   Unit
  Before A                     -6.6              dB
  A to C                       -26.4             dB
  After C                      -11.6             dB
  ---------------------------- ----------------- ------

To pass the test, steps 2 and 3 of the procedure in clause 5.4.5.4.2
must be fulfilled.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Test Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is given
in clause F.4.

5.5 Transmit ON/OFF Power
-------------------------

### 5.5.1 Transmit OFF Power

#### 5.5.1.1 Definition and applicability

Transmit OFF power is defined as the RRC filtered mean power when the
transmitter is off. The transmit OFF power state is when the UE does not
transmit or during periods when the UE is not transmitting DPCCH due to
discontinuous uplink DPCCH transmission During transmission gaps in UL
compressed mode, the UE is not considered to be in the OFF state.

The requirements and this test apply to all types of UTRA for the FDD
UE.

#### 5.5.1.2 Minimum Requirements

The requirement for the transmit OFF power shall be less than −56 dBm.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.5.1.1.

#### 5.5.1.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE transmit OFF power is less than −56 dBm.

An excess transmit OFF power increases the interference to other
channels, and decreases the system capacity.

#### 5.5.1.4 Method of test

This test is covered by clause 5.5.2 Transmit ON/OFF Time mask.

#### 5.5.1.5 Test requirements

The measured RRC filtered mean power shall be less than −55 dBm.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

### 5.5.2 Transmit ON/OFF Time mask

#### 5.5.2.1 Definition and applicability

The time mask for transmit ON/OFF defines the ramping time allowed for
the UE between transmit OFF power and transmit ON power. Possible ON/OFF
scenarios for release 99 and release 4 only are PRACH, CPCH or uplink
compressed mode. For release 5 and later the possible ON/OFF scenarios
are PRACH, discontinuous uplink DPCCH transmission or uplink compressed
mode.

The requirements and this test apply to all types of UTRA for the FDD
UE.

#### 5.5.2.2 Minimum requirements

The mean power of successive slots shall be calculated according to
figure 5.5.1 for PRACH preambles, figure 5.5.1A for discontinuous uplink
DPCCH transmission and figure 5.5.2 for all other cases. The off signal
is defined as the RRC filtered mean power.

Figure 5.5.1: Transmit ON/OFF template for PRACH preambles

Figure 5.5.1A: Transmit ON/OFF template for discontinuous uplink DPCCH
transmission

Figure 5.5.2: Transmit ON/OFF template for all other On/Off cases

OFF Power is defined in clause 5.5.1.2.

ON power is defined as the mean power. The specification depends on each
possible case.

\- First preamble of PRACH: Open loop accuracy (table 5.4.1.1).

\- During preamble ramping of the RACH and between final RACH preamble
and RACH message part: Accuracy depending on size of the required power
difference (table 5.5.2.1).

\- After transmission gap due to discontinuous uplink DPCCH
transmission: Accuracy as in table 5.5.2.1A.

\- After transmission gaps in compressed mode: Accuracy as in table
5.7.1.

\- Power step to Maximum Power: Maximum power accuracy (table 5.2.1).

Table 5.5.2.1: Transmitter power difference tolerance for RACH preamble
ramping,\
and between final RACH preamble and RACH message part

+-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| Power difference size | Transmitter power difference tolerance \[dB\] |
|                       |                                               |
| ∆P \[dB\]             |                                               |
+-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| 0                     | ±1                                            |
+-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| 1                     | ±1                                            |
+-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| 2                     | ±1.5                                          |
+-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| 3                     | ±2                                            |
+-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| 4 ≤ ∆P ≤ 10           | ±2.5                                          |
+-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| 11 ≤ ∆P ≤ 15          | ±3.5                                          |
+-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| 16 ≤ ∆P ≤ 20          | ±4.5                                          |
+-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| 21 ≤ ∆P               | ±6.5                                          |
+-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------+

Table 5.5.2.1A: Transmitter power difference tolerance after a gap of up
to 10 sub-frames due to discontinuous uplink DPCCH transmission

  --------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------
  Last TPC\_cmd   Transmitter power step tolerance after discontinuous UL DPCCH transmission gap                                                     
                  1 dB step size                                                                   2 dB step size   3 dB step size                   
                  Lower                                                                            Upper            Lower            Upper   Lower   Upper
  +1              -2 dB                                                                            +4 dB            -1 dB            +5 dB   0 dB    +6 dB
  0               -3 dB                                                                            +3 dB            -3 dB            +3 dB   -3 dB   +3 dB
  -1              -4 dB                                                                            +2 dB            -5 dB            +1 dB   -6 dB   0 dB
  --------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------- ------- ------- -------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 6.5.2.1.

This is tested using PRACH operation.

#### 5.5.2.3 Test purpose

To verify that the power ON/OFF ratio of the PRACH shown in figure 5.5.1
meets the requirements given in 5.5.2.2.

Transmission of the wrong power increases interference to other
channels, or increases transmission errors in the uplink\'s own channel.

NOTE: The test case covers only the PRACH scenario.

#### 5.5.2.4 Method of test

##### 5.5.2.4.1 Initial conditions {#initial-conditions-7 .H6}

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.1.

2\) Channel conditions are initially set up with received CPICH\_RSCP
\>-85 dBm. The relative power level of downlink physical channels to Ior
are set up according to clause E.2.1. The parameter settings of the cell
are set up according to table 5.5.2.1A.

> 3\) Switch on the phone.

4\) After the UE has performed registration and entered idle mode, Îor
is set up according to table 5.5.2.2. The relative power level of
downlink physical channels to Ior are set up according to clause E.2.1

5\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure, in
\[3\] clause 7.3.1 with channel conditions according the test parameters
in table 5.5.2.3.

The RACH procedure within the call setup is used for the test. The
number of the available subchannels should be limited to one. This
ensures that the preamble sequence is known to the SS. The preamble
retransmission shall be at least 3. The power ramping step size shall be
1 dB. Note that the maximum number of preamble retransmissions is
limited to 5 due to the fact that the commanded uplink power exceeds the
allowed uplink power of more than 6 dB. The SS shall not send either an
ACK or a NACK.

Table 5.5.2.1A: Settings for the serving cell

  ------------------------ ------ --------------- --------------- --------------- ---------------
  Parameter                Unit   Cell 1                                          
                                  Power class 1   Power class 2   Power class 3   Power class 4
  Cell type                       Serving cell                                    
  UTRA RF Channel Number          Channel 1                                       
  Qqualmin                 dB     -24                                             
  Qrxlevmin                dBm    -115                                            
  UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     dBm    33              27              24              21
  ------------------------ ------ --------------- --------------- --------------- ---------------

Table 5.5.2.2: Test parameters for Transmit ON/OFF Time mask (UE)

  ----------- ------------------- ----------------
  Parameter   Level / Status      Unit
  Îor         See table 5.5.2.3   dBm / 3,84 MHz
  ----------- ------------------- ----------------

Table 5.5.2.3: Test parameters for Transmit ON/OFF Time mask (SS)

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+
| Pa      | Power   | Power   | Power   | Power   | Unit    |     |
| rameter | Class 1 | Class 2 | Class 3 | Class 4 |         |     |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+
| Îor     | \<REF   | \<REF   | \<REF   | \<REF   | dBm /   |     |
| (note   | Î~or~\> | Î~or~\> | Î~or~\> | Î~or~\> | 3,84    |     |
| 1)      |         |         |         |         | MHz     |     |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+
| CPICH   | \<REF   | \<REF   | \<REF   | \<REF   | dBm     |     |
| \_RSCP\ | Î~or~\> | Î~or~\> | Î~or~\> | Î~or~\> |         |     |
| (notes  | +       | +       | +       | +       |         |     |
| 1 and   | CP      | CP      | CP      | CP      |         |     |
| 2)      | ICH\_Ec | ICH\_Ec | ICH\_Ec | ICH\_Ec |         |     |
|         | / Ior   | / Ior   | / Ior   | / Ior   |         |     |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+
| Primary | +19     | +19     | +19     | +19     | dBm     |     |
| CPICH   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| DL TX   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| power   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+
| Si      | Band I, | 128.9   | 128.9   | 128.9   | 128.9   | dB  |
| mulated | IV, VI, |         |         |         |         |     |
| path    | X, XIX, |         |         |         |         |     |
| loss =  | XI, XXI |         |         |         |         |     |
| Primary |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| CPICH   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| DL TX   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| power - |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| CPIC    |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| H\_RSCP |         |         |         |         |         |     |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+
|         | Band    | 126.9   | 126.9   | 126.9   | 126.9   |     |
|         | II, V,  |         |         |         |         |     |
|         | VII     |         |         |         |         |     |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+
|         | Band    | 125.9   | 125.9   | 125.9   | 125.9   |     |
|         | III,    |         |         |         |         |     |
|         | VIII,   |         |         |         |         |     |
|         | XII,    |         |         |         |         |     |
|         | XIII,   |         |         |         |         |     |
|         | XIV,    |         |         |         |         |     |
|         | XX,     |         |         |         |         |     |
|         | XXII    |         |         |         |         |     |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+
|         | Band IX | 127.9   | 127.9   | 127.9   | 127.9   |     |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+
|         | Band    | 125.4   | 125.4   | 125.4   | 125.4   |     |
|         | XXV,    |         |         |         |         |     |
|         | XXVI    |         |         |         |         |     |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+
| UL      | Band I, | −86     | −92     | −95     | −98     | dBm |
| inter   | IV, VI, |         |         |         |         |     |
| ference | X, XIX, |         |         |         |         |     |
|         | XI, XXI |         |         |         |         |     |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+
|         | Band    | −84     | −90     | −93     | −96     |     |
|         | II, V,  |         |         |         |         |     |
|         | VII     |         |         |         |         |     |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+
|         | Band    | −83     | −89     | −92     | −95     |     |
|         | III,    |         |         |         |         |     |
|         | VIII,   |         |         |         |         |     |
|         | XII,    |         |         |         |         |     |
|         | XIII,   |         |         |         |         |     |
|         | XIV,    |         |         |         |         |     |
|         | XX,     |         |         |         |         |     |
|         | XXII    |         |         |         |         |     |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+
|         | Band IX | -85     | -91     | -94     | -97     |     |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+
|         | Band    | -83     | -89     | -92     | -95     |     |
|         | XXV,    |         |         |         |         |     |
|         | XXVI    |         |         |         |         |     |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+
| C       | −10     | −10     | −10     | −10     | dB      |     |
| onstant |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| Value   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+
| E       | +32.9   | +26.9   | +23.9   | +20.9   | dBm     |     |
| xpected |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| nominal |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| UE TX   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| power   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| for all |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| bands   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| except  |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| bands   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| XXV and |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| XXVI    |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| (note   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| 3)      |         |         |         |         |         |     |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+
| E       | +32.4   | +26.4   | +23.4   | +20.4   |         |     |
| xpected |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| nominal |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| UE TX   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| power   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| for     |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| bands   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| XXV and |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| XXVI    |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| (note   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| 3)      |         |         |         |         |         |     |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+
| NOTE 1: |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| \<REF   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| Î~or~\> |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| sp      |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| ecified |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| in      |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| Table   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| 6.2.2,  |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| CP      |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| ICH\_Ec |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| / Ior   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| sp      |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| ecified |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| in      |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| Table   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| E.2.2.  |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| The     |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| power   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| level   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| of      |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| S-CCPCH |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| should  |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| be      |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| defined |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| because |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| S-CCPCH |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| tran    |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| smitted |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| during  |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| P       |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| reamble |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| RACH    |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| trans   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| mission |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| period. |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| The     |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| power   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| level   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| of      |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| S-CCPCH |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| is set  |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| to −5.3 |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| dB      |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| r       |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| elative |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| to Ior. |         |         |         |         |         |     |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| NOTE 2: |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| The     |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| purpose |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| of this |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| pa      |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| rameter |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| is to   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| ca      |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| lculate |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| E       |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| xpected |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| nominal |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| UE TX   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| power.  |         |         |         |         |         |     |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| NOTE 3: |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| The     |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| E       |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| xpected |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| nominal |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| UE TX   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| power   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| cal     |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| culated |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| by      |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| using   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| e       |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| quation |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| in the  |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| clause  |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| 8.5.7   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| Open    |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| Loop    |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| Power   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| Control |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| of TS   |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| 25.331  |         |         |         |         |         |     |
| \[8\].  |         |         |         |         |         |     |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+

##### 5.5.2.4.2 Procedure {#procedure-7 .H6}

1\) Set the TX output level of the SS to obtain Îor at the UE antenna
connector and select the test parameters of table 5.5.2.3 according to
the power class. Îor shall be according to table 5.5.2.3.

2\) Measure the mean power (ON power) of the UE on the first PRACH
preamble according to the timing in figure 5.5.1.

3\) Measure the RRC filtered mean power (OFF power) in a 2368 chip time
interval before a transient period of 25 µs (96 chips) prior to a RACH
preamble (ON power). Measure the RRC filtered mean power (OFF power) in
a 2368 chip time interval after a transient period of 25 µs (96 chips)
after a RACH preamble (ON power). Due to the dynamic range between the
ON and OFF power measurements, the OFF power measurements can be made on
subsequent PRACH preambles rather than adjacent to the first PRACH
preamble.

#### 5.5.2.5 Test requirements

The deviation with respect to the Expected nominal UE TX power (table
5.5.2.3), derived in step 2), shall not exceed the prescribed upper
tolerance in table 5.2.2 (clause 5.2.5) and lower tolerance in table
5.4.1.4. (clause 5.4.1.5) for the first PRACH preamble.

The measured RRC filtered mean power, derived in step 3), shall be less
than −55 dBm. (clause 5.5.1.5).

5.6 Change of TFC
-----------------

### 5.6.1 Definition and applicability

A change of TFC (Transport Format Combination) in uplink means that the
power in the uplink varies according to the change in data rate. DTX,
where the DPDCH is turned off, is a special case of variable data, which
is used to minimise the interference between UE(s) by reducing the UE
transmit power when voice, user or control information is not present.

The requirements and this test apply to all types of UTRA for the FDD
UE.

### 5.6.2 Minimum requirements

A change of output power is required when the TFC, and thereby the data
rate, is changed. The ratio of the amplitude between the DPDCH codes and
the DPCCH code will vary. The power step due to a change in TFC shall be
calculated in the UE so that the power transmitted on the DPCCH shall
follow the inner loop power control. The step in total transmitted power
(DPCCH + DPDCH) shall then be rounded to the closest integer dB value. A
power step exactly half-way between two integer values shall be rounded
to the closest integer of greater magnitude. The accuracy of the power
step, given the step size is specified in table 5.6.1. The power change
due to a change in TFC is defined as the relative power difference
between the mean power of the original (reference) timeslot and the mean
power of the target timeslot, not including the transient duration. The
transient duration is from 25 μs before the slot boundary to 25 μs after
the slot boundary.

Table 5.6.1: Transmitter power step tolerance

  --------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------
  Power control step size (Up or down)\   Transmitter power step tolerance \[dB\]
  ∆P \[dB\]                               

  0                                       ±0,5

  1                                       ±0,5

  2                                       ±1,0

  3                                       ±1,5

  4 £ ∆P £ 10                             ±2,0

  11 £ ∆P £ 15                            ±3,0

  16 £ ∆P £ 20                            ±4,0

  21 £ ∆P                                 ±6,0
  --------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------

Clause C.2.1 defines the UL reference measurement channels (12,2 kbps)
for TX test and the power ratio between DPCCH and DPDCH as −5,46 dB.
Therefore, only one power control step size is selected as minimum
requirement from table 5.6.1. The accuracy of the power step, given the
step size is specified in table 5.6.2.

Table 5.6.2: Transmitter power step tolerance for test

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Quantized amplitude  | Power control step   | Transmitter power    |
| ratios               | size (Up or down) ∆P | step tolerance       |
|                      | \[dB\]               | \[dB\]               |
| βc and βd            |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| βc = 0,5333, βd =    | 7                    | ±2                   |
| 1,0                  |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

The mean power of successive slots shall be calculated according to
figure 5.6.1.

Figure 5.6.1: Transmit template during TFC change

The UL reference measurement channel (12,2 kbps) is a fixed rate
channel. Therefore, DTX, where the DPDCH is turned off, is tested, as
shown in figure 5.6.2.

![](media/image16.wmf){width="3.073611111111111in"
height="2.432638888888889in"}

Figure 5.6.2: Transmit template during DTX

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 6.5.3.1.

### 5.6.3 Test purpose

To verify that the tolerance of power control step size does not exceed
the described value shown in table 5.6.2.

To verify that the DTX ON/OFF power levels versus time meets the
described mask shown in figure 5.6.2.

### 5.6.4 Method of test

##### 5.6.4.1 Initial conditions {#initial-conditions-8 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.1.

2\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure in
TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.2. The Uplink DPCH Power Control Info
shall specify the Power Control Algorithm as algorithm 2 for
interpreting TPC commands.

3\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 5.6.4.2 Procedure {#procedure-8 .H6}

1\) Set the power level of the UE to , 0 dBm ± 1 dB.

2\) Send alternating \"0\" and \"1\" TPC commands in the downlink so as
to satisfy the condition of obtaining TPC\_cmd = 0.

3\) Measure the mean output power of the UE in two cases, both DPDCH and
DPCCH are ON and only DPCCH is ON. The measurements shall not include
the transient periods.

### 5.6.5 Test requirements

The difference in mean power between DPDCH ON and OFF, derived in step
3), shall not exceed the prescribed range in table 5.6.3.

Table 5.6.3: Transmitter power step tolerance for test

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Quantized amplitude  | Power control step   | Transmitter power    |
| ratios               | size (Up or down) ∆P | step tolerance       |
|                      | \[dB\]               | \[dB\]               |
| βc and βd            |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| βc = 0,5333, βd =    | 7                    | ±2.3                 |
| 1,0                  |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.6AA Change of TFC **for OLTD**
--------------------------------

### 5.6AA.1 Definition and applicability

A change of TFC (Transport Format Combination) in uplink means that the
power in the uplink varies according to the change in data rate. DTX,
where the DPDCH is turned off, is a special case of variable data, which
is used to minimise the interference between UE(s) by reducing the UE
transmit power when voice, user or control information is not present.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support UL OLTD.

### 5.6AA.2 Minimum requirements

A change of output power is required when the TFC, and thereby the data
rate, is changed. The ratio of the amplitude between the DPDCH codes and
the DPCCH code will vary. The power step due to a change in TFC shall be
calculated in the UE so that the power transmitted on the DPCCH shall
follow the inner loop power control. The step in total transmitted power
(DPCCH + S-DPCCH + DPDCH for UE configured in UL OLTD) shall then be
rounded to the closest integer dB value. A power step exactly half-way
between two integer values shall be rounded to the closest integer of
greater magnitude. The accuracy of the power step, given the step size,
is specified in Table 5.6AA.1 at each transmit antenna connector. The
power change at each transmit antenna connector due to a change in TFC
is defined as the relative power difference between the mean power of
the original (reference) timeslot and the mean power of the target
timeslot, not including the transient duration. The transient duration
is from 25μs before the slot boundary to 25μs after the slot boundary.

Table 5.6AA.1: Transmitter power step tolerance

  --------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------
  Power control step size (Up or down)\   Transmitter power step tolerance \[dB\]
  ∆P \[dB\]                               

  0                                       ±0,5

  1                                       ±0,5

  2                                       ±1,0

  3                                       ±1,5

  4 £ ∆P £ 10                             ±2,0

  11 £ ∆P £ 15                            ±3,0

  16 £ ∆P £ 20                            ±4,0

  21 £ ∆P                                 ±6,0
  --------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------

Clause \[FFS\] defines the UL reference measurement channels for TX test
and the power ratio between DPCCH and DPDCH as \[FFS\]. Therefore, only
one power control step size is selected as minimum requirement from
table 5.6AA.1. The accuracy of the power step, given the step size is
specified in table 5.6AA.2.

Table 5.6AA.2: Transmitter power step tolerance for test

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Quantized amplitude  | Power control step   | Transmitter power    |
| ratios               | size (Up or down) ∆P | step tolerance       |
|                      | \[dB\]               | \[dB\]               |
| βc and βd            |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| βc = 0,5333, βd =    | 7                    | ±2                   |
| 1,0                  |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

The mean power of successive slots shall be calculated according to
figure 5.6AA.1.

Figure 5.6AA.1: Transmit template during TFC change

The UL reference measurement channel (12,2 kbps) is a fixed rate
channel. Therefore, DTX, where the DPDCH is turned off, is tested, as
shown in figure 5.6AA.2.

![](media/image16.wmf){width="3.073611111111111in"
height="2.4368055555555554in"}

Figure 5.6AA.2: Transmit template during DTX

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 6.5.3.1A.

### 5.6AA.3 Test purpose

To verify that the tolerance of power control step size does not exceed
the described value shown in table 5.6AA.2.

To verify that the DTX ON/OFF power levels versus time meets the
described mask shown in figure 5.6AA.2.

### 5.6AA.4 Method of test

#### 5.6AA.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.52.

2\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure in
TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.18. The Uplink DPCH Power Control Info
shall specify the Power Control Algorithm as algorithm 2 for
interpreting TPC commands.

3\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

#### 5.6AA.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set the power level of the UE to , 0 dBm ± 1 dB.

2\) Send alternating \"0\" and \"1\" TPC commands in the downlink so as
to satisfy the condition of obtaining TPC\_cmd = 0.

3\) Measure the mean output power of the UE in two cases, when all
DPDCH, S-DPCCH and DPCCH are ON and when only DPCCH is ON. The
measurements shall not include the transient periods.

### 5.6AA.5 Test requirements

The difference in mean power between DPDCH ON and OFF, derived in step
3), shall not exceed the prescribed range in table 5.6AA.3.

Table 5.6AA.3: Transmitter power step tolerance for test

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Quantized amplitude  | Power control step   | Transmitter power    |
| ratios               | size (Up or down) ∆P | step tolerance       |
|                      | \[dB\]               | \[dB\]               |
| βc and βd            |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| βc = 0,5333, βd =    | 7                    | ±2.3                 |
| 1,0                  |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.3.

5.6AB Void 
----------

5.6AC Void
----------

5.7 Power setting in uplink compressed mode
-------------------------------------------

### 5.7.1 Definition and applicability

Compressed mode in uplink means that the power in uplink is changed.

The requirements and this test apply to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE
that support UL or combined UL/DL compressed modes.

### 5.7.2 Minimum requirements

A change of output power is required during uplink compressed frames
since the transmission of data is performed in a shorter interval. The
ratio of the amplitude between the DPDCH codes and the DPCCH code will
also vary. The power step due to compressed mode shall be calculated in
the UE so that the energy transmitted on the pilot bits during each
transmitted slot shall follow the inner loop power control.

Thereby, the power during compressed mode, and immediately afterwards,
shall be such that the mean power of the DPCCH follows the steps due to
inner loop power control combined with additional steps of
10Log10(Npilot.prev / Npilot.curr) dB where Npilot.prev is the number of
pilot bits in the previously transmitted slot, and Npilot.curr is the
current number of pilot bits per slot.

The resulting step in total transmitted power (DPCCH +DPDCH) shall then
be rounded to the closest integer dB value. A power step exactly
half-way between two integer values shall be rounded to the closest
integer of greatest magnitude. The accuracy of the power step, given the
step size, is specified in table 5.6.1 in clause 5.6.2. The power step
is defined as the relative power difference between the mean power of
the original (reference) timeslot and the mean power of the target
timeslot, when neither the original timeslot nor the reference timeslot
are in a transmission gap. The transient duration is not included, and
is from 25 μs before the slot boundary to 2 5μs after the slot boundary.

In addition to any power change due to the ratio Npilot.prev /
Npilot.curr, the mean power of the DPCCH in the first slot after a
compressed mode transmission gap shall differ from the mean power of the
DPCCH in the last slot before the transmission gap by an amount ∆RESUME,
where ∆RESUME is calculated as described in clause 5.1.2.3 of TS 25.214
\[5\].

The resulting difference in the total transmitted power (DPCCH + DPDCH)
shall then be rounded to the closest integer dB value. A power
difference exactly half-way between two integer values shall be rounded
to the closest integer of greatest magnitude. The accuracy of the
resulting difference in the total transmitted power (DPCCH + DPDCH)
after a transmission gap of up to 14 slots shall be as specified in
table 5.7.1.

Table 5.7.1: Transmitter power difference tolerance after a transmission
gap of up to 14 slots

+-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+
| Power difference (Up or down) | Transmitter power step tolerance    |
|                               | after a transmission gap \[dB\]     |
| ∆P \[dB\]                     |                                     |
+-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+
| ∆P ≤ 2                        | ±3                                  |
+-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+
| 3                             | ±3                                  |
+-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+
| 4 ≤ ∆P ≤ 10                   | ±3.5                                |
+-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+
| 11 ≤ ∆P ≤ 15                  | ±4                                  |
+-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+
| 16 ≤ ∆P ≤ 20                  | ±4.5                                |
+-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+
| 21 ≤ ∆P                       | ±6.5                                |
+-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+

The power difference is defined as the difference between the mean power
of the original (reference) timeslot before the transmission gap and the
mean power of the target timeslot after the transmission gap, not
including the transient durations. The transient durations at the start
and end of the transmission gaps are each from 25 μs before the slot
boundary to 25 μs after the slot boundary.

The mean power of successive slots shall be calculated according to
figure 5.7.1.

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\], clause 6.5.4.1.

Figure 5.7.1: Transmit template during Compressed mode

For RPL (Recovery Period Length) slots after the transmission gap, where
RPL is the minimum out of the transmission gap length and 7 slots, the
UE shall use the power control algorithm and step size specified by the
signalled Recovery Period Power Control Mode (RPP), as detailed in TS
25.214 \[5\] clause 5.1.2.3.

When nominal 3 dB power control steps are used in the recovery period,
the transmitter mean power steps due to inner loop power control shall
be within the range shown in table 5.7.2, and the transmitter aggregate
mean power step due to inner loop power control shall be within the
range shown in table 5.7.3, excluding any other power changes due, for
example, to changes in spreading factor or number of pilot bits.

Table 5.7.2: Transmitter power control range for 3dB step size

  ---------- --------------------------------------------------- ---------
  TPC\_cmd   Transmitter power control range for 3dB step size   
             Lower                                               Upper
  +1         +1,5 dB                                             +4,5 dB
  0          −0,5 dB                                             +0,5 dB
  −1         −1,5 dB                                             −4,5 dB
  ---------- --------------------------------------------------- ---------

Table 5.7.3: Transmitter aggregate power control range for 3dB step size

  ---------------- ---------------------------------- --------
  TPC\_cmd group   Transmitter power control range\   
                   after 7 equal TPC\_cmd groups      

                   Lower                              Upper

  +1               +16 dB                             +26 dB

  0                −1 dB                              +1 dB

  −1               −16 dB                             −26 dB
  ---------------- ---------------------------------- --------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 6.4.2.1.1.

### 5.7.3 Test purpose

To verify that the changes in uplink transmit power in compressed mode
are within the prescribed tolerances.

Excess error in transmit power setting in compressed mode increases the
interference to other channels, or increases transmission errors in the
uplink.

### 5.7.4 Method of test

##### 5.7.4.1 Initial conditions {#initial-conditions-9 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.1.

2\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure in
TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.2. The 12,2 kbps UL reference measurement
channel is used, with gain factors βc = 0,5333 and βd = 1,0 in
non-compressed frames. Slot formats 0 and 0B are used on the uplink
DPCCH.

3\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 5.7.4.2 Procedure {#procedure-9 .H6}

NOTE: CFNs are given in this procedure for reference as examples only. A
fixed offset may be applied to the CFNs.

1\) Before proceeding with step (3) below, set the output power of the
UE to be in the range -36 ± 9 dBm. This may be achieved by setting the
downlink signal (Îor) to yield an appropriate open loop output power
and/or by generating suitable downlink TPC commands from the SS.

2\) Transmit the PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to set the
uplink power control parameters to use Algorithm 1 and a step size of 2
dB, and to set the compressed mode parameters shown in table 5.7.5. The
contents of the message are specified in table 5.7.9. This set of
compressed mode parameters defines the compressed mode pattern which is
used to test the implementation of:

a\) in steps (3) and (4), upward 3 dB output power steps and the
implementation of a downward power change when resuming transmission
after a compressed mode gap, and

b\) in steps (7) and (8), downward 3dB output power steps and the
implementation of an upward power change when resuming transmission
after a compressed mode gap.

Table 5.7.5: Parameters for pattern A for compressed mode test

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Parameter            | Meaning              | Value                |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| TGPRC                | Number of            | 1                    |
|                      | transmission gap     |                      |
|                      | patterns within the  |                      |
|                      | Transmission Gap     |                      |
|                      | Pattern Sequence     |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| TGCFN                | Connection Frame     | 0                    |
|                      | Number of the first  |                      |
|                      | frame of the first   |                      |
|                      | pattern within the   |                      |
|                      | Transmission Gap     |                      |
|                      | Pattern Sequence     |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| TGSN                 | Slot number of the   | 2                    |
|                      | first transmission   |                      |
|                      | gap slot within the  |                      |
|                      | TGCFN                |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| TGL1                 | Length of first      | 7 slots              |
|                      | transmission gap     |                      |
|                      | within the           |                      |
|                      | transmission gap     |                      |
|                      | pattern              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| TGL2                 | Length of second     | 7 slots              |
|                      | transmission gap     |                      |
|                      | within the           |                      |
|                      | transmission gap     |                      |
|                      | pattern              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| TGD                  | Duration between the | 15 slots             |
|                      | starting slots of    |                      |
|                      | two consecutive      |                      |
|                      | transmission gaps    |                      |
|                      | within a             |                      |
|                      | transmission gap     |                      |
|                      | pattern              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| TGPL1                | Duration of          | 3 frames             |
|                      | transmission gap     |                      |
|                      | pattern 1            |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| TGPL2                | Duration of          | R99 and Rel-4: Omit  |
|                      | transmission gap     |                      |
|                      | pattern 2            | Rel-5 and later      |
|                      |                      | releases:            |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Not applicable       |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| RPP                  | Recovery Period      | Mode 1               |
|                      | Power Control Mode   |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| ITP                  | Initial Transmit     | Mode 1               |
|                      | Power Mode           |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| UL/DL Mode           | Defines whether UL   | UL only or UL/DL     |
|                      | only or combined     |                      |
|                      | UL/DL compressed     |                      |
|                      | mode is used         |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Downlink Compressed  | Method for           | SF/2                 |
| Mode Method          | generating downlink  |                      |
|                      | compressed mode gap  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Uplink Compressed    | Method for           | SF/2                 |
| Mode Method          | generating uplink    |                      |
|                      | compressed mode gap  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Scrambling code      | Indicates whether    | No code change       |
| change               | the alternative      |                      |
|                      | scrambling code is   |                      |
|                      | used                 |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Downlink frame type  | Downlink compressed  | A                    |
|                      | frame structure      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| DeltaSIR             | Delta in DL SIR      | 0                    |
|                      | target value to be   |                      |
|                      | set in the UE during |                      |
|                      | compressed frames    |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| DeltaSIRafter        | Delta in DL SIR      | 0                    |
|                      | target value to be   |                      |
|                      | set in the UE one    |                      |
|                      | frame after the      |                      |
|                      | compressed frames    |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

The resulting compressed mode pattern is shown in figure 5.7.2.

Figure 5.7.2: Pattern A for compressed mode test

3\) After the PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION COMPLETE message from the
UE is received, transmit TPC commands on the downlink as shown in table
5.7.6.

Table 5.7.6: TPC commands transmitted in downlink

  ----- -------------------------------
  CFN   TPC commands in downlink
  0     0 1 - - - - - - - 1 1 1 1 1 1
  1     1 1 - - - - - - - 1 0 1 0 1 0
  2     1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1
  ----- -------------------------------

4\) Measure the mean power in the following slots, not including the 25
μs transient periods at the start and end of each slot:\
\
CFN 0: Slots \# 9,10,11,12,13,14\
CFN 1: Slots \# 0,1,9

5\) Re-start the test. Before proceeding with step (7) below, set the
output power of the UE to be in the range 2 ± 9 dBm. This may be
achieved by setting the downlink signal (Îor) to yield an appropriate
open loop output power and/or by generating suitable downlink TPC
commands from the SS.

6\) Repeat step (2) above, with the exception that TGCFN = 3 in table
5.7.5 and table 5.7.9.

7\) After the PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION COMPLETE message from the
UE is received, transmit TPC commands on the downlink as shown in table
5.7.7.

Table 5.7.7: TPC commands transmitted in downlink

  ----- -------------------------------
  CFN   TPC commands in downlink
  3     0 1 - - - - - - - 0 0 0 0 0 0
  4     0 0 - - - - - - - 0 1 0 1 0 1
  5     0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0
  ----- -------------------------------

8\) Measure the mean power in the following slots, not including the 25
μs transient periods at the start and end of each slot:\
\
CFN 3: Slots \# 9,10,11,12,13,14\
CFN 4: Slots \# 0,1,9

9\) Re-start the test. Before proceeding with step (11) below, set the
output power of the UE to be in the range -10 ± 9 dBm. This may be
achieved by setting the downlink signal (Îor) to yield an appropriate
open loop output power and/or by generating suitable downlink TPC
commands from the SS.

10\) Transmit the PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to set the
uplink power control parameters to use Algorithm 1 and a step size of 1
dB, and to set the compressed mode parameters shown in table 5.7.8. The
contents of the message are specified in table 5.7.10. This set of
compressed mode parameters defines the compressed mode pattern which is
used to test the implementation of power steps at the start and end of
compressed frames, and the implementation of a zero power change when
resuming transmission after a compressed mode gap.

Table 5.7.8: Parameters for pattern B for compressed mode test

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Parameter            | Meaning              | Value                |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| TGPRC                | Number of            | 1                    |
|                      | transmission gap     |                      |
|                      | patterns within the  |                      |
|                      | Transmission Gap     |                      |
|                      | Pattern Sequence     |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| TGCFN                | Connection Frame     | 7                    |
|                      | Number of the first  |                      |
|                      | frame of the first   |                      |
|                      | pattern within the   |                      |
|                      | Transmission Gap     |                      |
|                      | Pattern Sequence     |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| TGSN                 | Slot number of the   | 8                    |
|                      | first transmission   |                      |
|                      | gap slot within the  |                      |
|                      | TGCFN                |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| TGL1                 | Length of first      | 14 slots             |
|                      | transmission gap     |                      |
|                      | within the           |                      |
|                      | transmission gap     |                      |
|                      | pattern              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| TGL2                 | Length of second     | omit                 |
|                      | transmission gap     |                      |
|                      | within the           |                      |
|                      | transmission gap     |                      |
|                      | pattern              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| TGD                  | Duration between the | UNDEFINED            |
|                      | starting slots of    |                      |
|                      | two consecutive      |                      |
|                      | transmission gaps    |                      |
|                      | within a             |                      |
|                      | transmission gap     |                      |
|                      | pattern              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| TGPL1                | Duration of          | 4 frames             |
|                      | transmission gap     |                      |
|                      | pattern 1            |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| TGPL2                | Duration of          | R99 and Rel-4: Omit  |
|                      | transmission gap     |                      |
|                      | pattern 2            | Rel-5 and later      |
|                      |                      | releases:            |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Not applicable       |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| RPP                  | Recovery Period      | Mode 0               |
|                      | Power Control Mode   |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| ITP                  | Initial Transmit     | Mode 0               |
|                      | Power Mode           |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| UL/DL Mode           | Defines whether UL   | UL only or UL/DL     |
|                      | only or combined     |                      |
|                      | UL/DL compressed     |                      |
|                      | mode is used         |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Downlink Compressed  | Method for           | SF/2                 |
| Mode Method          | generating downlink  |                      |
|                      | compressed mode gap  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Uplink Compressed    | Method for           | SF/2                 |
| Mode Method          | generating uplink    |                      |
|                      | compressed mode gap  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Scrambling code      | Indicates whether    | No code change       |
| change               | the alternative      |                      |
|                      | scrambling code is   |                      |
|                      | used                 |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Downlink frame type  | Downlink compressed  | A                    |
|                      | frame structure      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| DeltaSIR             | Delta in DL SIR      | 0                    |
|                      | target value to be   |                      |
|                      | set in the UE during |                      |
|                      | compressed frames    |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| DeltaSIRafter        | Delta in DL SIR      | 0                    |
|                      | target value to be   |                      |
|                      | set in the UE one    |                      |
|                      | frame after the      |                      |
|                      | compressed frames    |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

The resulting compressed mode pattern is shown in figure 5.7.3.

Figure 5.7.3: Pattern B for compressed mode test

11\) After the PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION COMPLETE message from
the UE is received, transmit TPC commands on the downlink as shown in
table 5.7.8.

Table 5.7.8: TPC commands transmitted in downlink

  ----- --------------------------------
  CFN   TPC commands in downlink
  6     0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1
  7     1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 - - - - - - -
  8     \- - - - - - - 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
  9     0 0 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
  ----- --------------------------------

12\) Measure the mean power in the following slots, not including the 25
μs transient periods at the start and end of each slot:\
\
CFN 6: Slot \# 14\
CFN 7: Slots \# 0 and 7\
CFN 8: Slots \# 7 and 14\
CFN 9: Slot \# 0

Table 5.7.9: PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message (step 2)

  ------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------
  Information Element                                           Value/Remark                                                                                                                                                         Version
  Message Type                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
  UE Information Elements                                                                                                                                                                                                            
  -RRC transaction identifier                                   0                                                                                                                                                                    
  -Integrity check info                                                                                                                                                                                                              
  \- message authentication code                                SS calculates the value of MAC-I for this message and writes to this IE. The first/ leftmost bit of the bit string contains the most significant bit of the MAC-I.   
  \- RRC message sequence number                                SS provides the value of this IE, from its internal counter.                                                                                                         
  -Integrity protection mode info                               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Ciphering mode info                                          Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Activation time                                              Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -New U-RNTI                                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -New C-RNTI                                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -RRC State Indicator                                          CELL\_DCH                                                                                                                                                            
  -UTRAN DRX cycle length coefficient                           Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  CN Information Elements                                                                                                                                                                                                            
  -CN Information info                                          Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  UTRAN mobility information elements                                                                                                                                                                                                
  -URA identity                                                 Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  RB information elements                                                                                                                                                                                                            
  -Downlink counter synchronisation info                        Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  PhyCH information elements                                                                                                                                                                                                         
  -Frequency info                                               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  Uplink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                                             
  -Maximum allowed UL TX power                                  Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -CHOICE channel requirement                                   Uplink DPCH info                                                                                                                                                     
  -Uplink DPCH power control info                                                                                                                                                                                                    
  -CHOICE mode                                                  FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -DPCCH Power offset                                           -40 (-80dB)                                                                                                                                                          
  -PC Preamble                                                  1 frame                                                                                                                                                              
  -SRB delay                                                    7 frames                                                                                                                                                             
  -Power Control Algorithm                                      Algorithm 1                                                                                                                                                          
  -TPC step size                                                2dB                                                                                                                                                                  
  -CHOICE mode                                                  FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Scrambling code type                                         Long                                                                                                                                                                 
  -Scrambling code number                                       0                                                                                                                                                                    
  -Number of DPDCH                                              1                                                                                                                                                                    
  -spreading factor                                             64                                                                                                                                                                   
  -TFCI existence                                               TRUE                                                                                                                                                                 
  -Number of FBI bits                                           Not Present(0)                                                                                                                                                       
  -Puncturing Limit                                             1                                                                                                                                                                    
  Downlink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                                           
  -CHOICE mode                                                  FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Downlink PDSCH information                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          R99 and Rel-4 only
  -Downlink information common for all radio links                                                                                                                                                                                   
  -Downlink DPCH info common for all RL                         Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -CHOICE mode                                                  FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -DPCH compressed mode info                                                                                                                                                                                                         
  -Transmission gap pattern sequence                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  -TGPSI                                                        1                                                                                                                                                                    
  -TGPS Status Flag                                             Activate                                                                                                                                                             
  -TGCFN                                                        0                                                                                                                                                                    
  -Transmission gap pattern sequence configuration parameters                                                                                                                                                                        
  -TGMP                                                         FDD measurement                                                                                                                                                      
  -TGPRC                                                        1                                                                                                                                                                    
  -TGSN                                                         2                                                                                                                                                                    
  -TGL1                                                         7                                                                                                                                                                    
  -TGL2                                                         7                                                                                                                                                                    
  -TGD                                                          15                                                                                                                                                                   
  -TGPL1                                                        3                                                                                                                                                                    
  -TGPL2                                                        Not Present                                                                                                                                                          R99 and Rel-4 only
  -RPP                                                          Mode 1                                                                                                                                                               
  -ITP                                                          Mode 1                                                                                                                                                               
  -CHOICE UL/DL mode                                            UL only or UL and DL, depending on UE capability                                                                                                                     
  -Downlink compressed mode method                              SF/2 or Not present depending on UE capability                                                                                                                       
  -Uplink compressed mode method                                SF/2                                                                                                                                                                 
  -Downlink frame type                                          A                                                                                                                                                                    
  -DeltaSIR1                                                    0                                                                                                                                                                    
  -DeltaSIRafter1                                               0                                                                                                                                                                    
  -DeltaSIR2                                                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -DeltaSIRafter2                                               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -N Identify abort                                             Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -T Reconfirm abort                                            Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -TX Diversity Mode                                            Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -SSDT information                                             Not Present                                                                                                                                                          R99 and Rel-4 only
  -Default DPCH Offset Value                                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Downlink information per radio link list                                                                                                                                                                                          
  \- Downlink information for each radio link                                                                                                                                                                                        
  -Choice mode                                                  FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Primary CPICH info                                                                                                                                                                                                                
  -Primary scrambling code                                      100                                                                                                                                                                  
  -PDSCH with SHO DCH Info                                      Not Present                                                                                                                                                          R99 and Rel-4 only
  -PDSCH code mapping                                           Not Present                                                                                                                                                          R99 and Rel-4 only
  -Downlink DPCH info for each RL                                                                                                                                                                                                    
  -CHOICE mode                                                  FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Primary CPICH usage for channel estimation                   Primary CPICH may be used                                                                                                                                            
  -DPCH frame offset                                            Set to value Default DPCH Offset Value ( as currently stored in SS) mod 38400                                                                                        
  -Secondary CPICH info                                         Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -DL channelisation code                                                                                                                                                                                                            
  -Secondary scrambling code                                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Spreading factor                                             128                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Code number                                                  96                                                                                                                                                                   
  -Scrambling code change                                       No code change                                                                                                                                                       
  -TPC combination index                                        0                                                                                                                                                                    
  -SSDT Cell Identity                                           Not Present                                                                                                                                                          R99 and Rel-4 only
  -Closed loop timing adjustment mode                           Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -SCCPCH Information for FACH                                  Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  ------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------

Table 5.7.10: PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message (step 10)

  ------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------
  Information Element                                           Value/Remark                                                                                                                                                         Version
  Message Type                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
  UE Information Elements                                                                                                                                                                                                            
  -RRC transaction identifier                                   0                                                                                                                                                                    
  -Integrity check info                                                                                                                                                                                                              
  \- message authentication code                                SS calculates the value of MAC-I for this message and writes to this IE. The first/ leftmost bit of the bit string contains the most significant bit of the MAC-I.   
  \- RRC message sequence number                                SS provides the value of this IE, from its internal counter.                                                                                                         
  -Integrity protection mode info                               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Ciphering mode info                                          Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Activation time                                              Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -New U-RNTI                                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -New C-RNTI                                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -RRC State Indicator                                          CELL\_DCH                                                                                                                                                            
  -UTRAN DRX cycle length coefficient                           Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  CN Information Elements                                                                                                                                                                                                            
  -CN Information info                                          Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  UTRAN mobility information elements                                                                                                                                                                                                
  -URA identity                                                 Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  RB information elements                                                                                                                                                                                                            
  -Downlink counter synchronisation info                        Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  PhyCH information elements                                                                                                                                                                                                         
  -Frequency info                                               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  Uplink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                                             
  -Maximum allowed UL TX power                                  Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -CHOICE channel requirement                                   Uplink DPCH info                                                                                                                                                     
  -Uplink DPCH power control info                                                                                                                                                                                                    
  -CHOICE mode                                                  FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -DPCCH Power offset                                           -40 (-80dB)                                                                                                                                                          
  -PC Preamble                                                  1 frame                                                                                                                                                              
  -SRB delay                                                    7 frames                                                                                                                                                             
  -Power Control Algorithm                                      Algorithm 1                                                                                                                                                          
  -TPC step size                                                1dB                                                                                                                                                                  
  -CHOICE mode                                                  FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Scrambling code type                                         Long                                                                                                                                                                 
  -Scrambling code number                                       0                                                                                                                                                                    
  -Number of DPDCH                                              1                                                                                                                                                                    
  -spreading factor                                             64                                                                                                                                                                   
  -TFCI existence                                               TRUE                                                                                                                                                                 
  -Number of FBI bits                                           Not Present(0)                                                                                                                                                       
  -Puncturing Limit                                             1                                                                                                                                                                    
  Downlink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                                           
  -CHOICE mode                                                  FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Downlink PDSCH information                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          R99 and Rel-4 only
  -Downlink information common for all radio links                                                                                                                                                                                   
  -Downlink DPCH info common for all RL                         Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -CHOICE mode                                                  FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -DPCH compressed mode info                                                                                                                                                                                                         
  -Transmission gap pattern sequence                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  -TGPSI                                                        1                                                                                                                                                                    
  -TGPS Status Flag                                             Activate                                                                                                                                                             
  -TGCFN                                                        7                                                                                                                                                                    
  -Transmission gap pattern sequence configuration parameters                                                                                                                                                                        
  -TGMP                                                         FDD measurement                                                                                                                                                      
  -TGPRC                                                        1                                                                                                                                                                    
  -TGSN                                                         8                                                                                                                                                                    
  -TGL1                                                         14                                                                                                                                                                   
  -TGL2                                                         Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -TGD                                                          UNDEFINED                                                                                                                                                            
  -TGPL1                                                        4                                                                                                                                                                    
  -TGPL2                                                        Not Present                                                                                                                                                          R99 and Rel-4 only
  -RPP                                                          Mode 0                                                                                                                                                               
  -ITP                                                          Mode 0                                                                                                                                                               
  -CHOICE UL/DL mode                                            UL only or UL and DL, depending on UE capability                                                                                                                     
  -Downlink compressed mode method                              SF/2 or Not present depending on UE capability                                                                                                                       
  -Uplink compressed mode method                                SF/2                                                                                                                                                                 
  -Downlink frame type                                          A                                                                                                                                                                    
  -DeltaSIR1                                                    0                                                                                                                                                                    
  -DeltaSIRafter1                                               0                                                                                                                                                                    
  -DeltaSIR2                                                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -DeltaSIRafter2                                               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -N Identify abort                                             Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -T Reconfirm abort                                            Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -TX Diversity Mode                                            Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -SSDT information                                             Not Present                                                                                                                                                          R99 and Rel-4 only
  -Default DPCH Offset Value                                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Downlink information per radio link list                                                                                                                                                                                          
  \- Downlink information for each radio link                                                                                                                                                                                        
  -Choice mode                                                  FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Primary CPICH info                                                                                                                                                                                                                
  -Primary scrambling code                                      100                                                                                                                                                                  
  -PDSCH with SHO DCH Info                                      Not Present                                                                                                                                                          R99 and Rel-4 only
  -PDSCH code mapping                                           Not Present                                                                                                                                                          R99 and Rel-4 only
  -Downlink DPCH info for each RL                                                                                                                                                                                                    
  -CHOICE mode                                                  FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Primary CPICH usage for channel estimation                   Primary CPICH may be used                                                                                                                                            
  -DPCH frame offset                                            Set to value Default DPCH Offset Value ( as currently stored in SS) mod 38400                                                                                        
  -Secondary CPICH info                                         Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -DL channelisation code                                                                                                                                                                                                            
  -Secondary scrambling code                                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -Spreading factor                                             128                                                                                                                                                                  
  -Code number                                                  96                                                                                                                                                                   
  -Scrambling code change                                       No code change                                                                                                                                                       
  -TPC combination index                                        0                                                                                                                                                                    
  -SSDT Cell Identity                                           Not Present                                                                                                                                                          R99 and Rel-4 only
  -Closed loop timing adjustment mode                           Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  -SCCPCH Information for FACH                                  Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  ------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------

### 5.7.5 Test requirements

For ease of reference, the following uplink output power measurements
are defined in figure 5.7.4. In this figure:

\- Pg is the RRC filtered mean power in an uplink transmission gap,
excluding the 25 μs transient periods.

\- Pa is the mean power in the last slot before a compressed frame (or
pair of compressed frames), excluding the 25 μs transient periods.

\- Pb is the mean power in the first slot of a compressed frame,
excluding the 25 μs transient periods.

\- Pc is the mean power in the last slot before a transmission gap,
excluding the 25 μs transient periods.

\- Pd is the mean power in the first slot after a transmission gap,
excluding the 25 μs transient periods.

\- Pe is the mean power in the last slot of a compressed frame,
excluding the 25 μs transient periods.

\- Pf is the mean power in the first slot after a compressed frame (or
pair of compressed frames), excluding the\
25 μs transient periods.

Figure 5.7.4: Uplink transmit power in uplink compressed mode

1\. At the boundary between CFN 6 and CFN 7, Pb − Pa shall be within the
range +4 ± 2.3 dB.

2\. In slot \#9 of CFN 1, the power difference Pd − Pc from the power in
slot \#1 of CFN 1 shall be within the range ‑11 ± 4.3 dB.

3\. In slot \#9 of CFN 4, the power difference Pd − Pc from the power in
slot \#1 of CFN 4 shall be within the range +11 ± 4.3 dB.

4\. In slot \#7 of CFN 8, the power difference Pd − Pc from the power in
slot \#7 of CFN 7 shall be within the range 0 ± 3.2 dB.

5\. (void)

6\. At the boundary between CFN 8 and CFN 9, Pf − Pe shall be within the
range -4 ± 2.3 dB.

7\. In the slots between slot \#10 of CFN 0 and slot \#1 of CFN 1
inclusive, the change in mean power from the previous slot shall be
within the range given in table 5.7. 11 for TPC\_cmd = +1.

8\. The aggregate change in mean power from slot \#9 of CFN 0 to slot
\#1 of CFN 1 shall be within the range given in table 5.7. 12 for
TPC\_cmd = +1.

9\. In the slots between slot \#10 of CFN 3 and slot \#1 of CFN 4
inclusive, the change in mean power from the previous slot shall be
within the range given in table 5.7. 11 for TPC\_cmd = -1.

10\. The aggregate change in mean power from slot \#9 of CFN 3 to slot
\#1 of CFN 4 shall be within the range given in table 5.7. 12 for
TPC\_cmd = -1.

Table 5.7.11: Transmitter power control range for 3dB step size

  ---------- --------------------------------------------------- ---------
  TPC\_cmd   Transmitter power control range for 3dB step size   
             Lower                                               Upper
  +1         +1,3 dB                                             +4,7 dB
  0          −0,6 dB                                             +0,6 dB
  −1         −1,3 dB                                             −4,7 dB
  ---------- --------------------------------------------------- ---------

Table 5.7.12: Transmitter aggregate power control range for 3dB step
size

  ---------------- --------------------------------------------------------------- ---------
  TPC\_cmd group   Transmitter power control range after 7 equal TPC\_cmd groups   
                   Lower                                                           Upper
  +1               +15,7dB                                                         +26,3dB
  0                −1,1dB                                                          +1,1dB
  −1               −15,7dB                                                         −26,3dB
  ---------------- --------------------------------------------------------------- ---------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.7A HS-DPCCH power control
---------------------------

Editor's notes:

\- For a transition period unti Ran5\#72, this test case in version
12.3.0 of 34.121-1 shall be used.

### 5.7A.1 Definition and applicability

The transmission of Ack/Nack or CQI over the HS-DPCCH may cause the
transmission power in the uplink to vary. The ratio of the amplitude
between the DPCCH and the Ack/Nack and CQI respectively is signalled by
higher layers.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 5 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA.

### 5.7A.2 Minimum requirement

The nominal sum power on DPCCH+DPDCH is independent of the transmission
of Ack/Nack and CQI unless the UE output power when Ack/Nack or CQI is
transmitted would exceed the maximum value specified in Table 5.2A.1 or
fall below the value specified in 5.4.3.2, whereupon the UE may then
also apply additional scaling to the total transmit power as defined in
section 5.1.2.6 of TS.25.214 \[5\].

The composite transmitted power (DPCCH + DPDCH+HS-DPCCH) may then also
be rounded to the closest integer dB value. If rounding is done a power
step exactly half-way between two integer values shall be rounded to the
closest integer of greater magnitude.

The nominal power step due to transmission of Ack/Nack or CQI is defined
as the difference between the nominal mean powers of two power
evaluation periods either side of an HS-DPCCH boundary. The first
evaluation period starts 25 μs after a DPCCH slot boundary and ends 25μs
before the following HS-DPCCH slot boundary. The second evaluation
period starts 25 μs after the same HS-DPCCH slot boundary and ends 25 μs
before the following DPCCH slot boundary. This is described in figure
5.7A.1.

![](media/image22.wmf){width="6.002083333333333in"
height="4.425694444444445in"}

Figure 5.7A.1: Transmit power template during HS-DPCCH transmission

The tolerance of the power step due to transmission of the HS-DPCCH
shall meet the requirements in table 5.7A.1. For each direction, up to 2
exceptions to the transmitter power step tolerance defined in table
5.7A.1 shall be allowed. The transmitter power control range for
exceptions is defined in table 5.7A.2. Exceptions are applicable only if
the change in UL power is measured per 1-dB step size.

Table 5.7A.1: Transmitter power step tolerance

+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| Power step size (Up or down) | Transmitter power step tolerance \[dB\] |
|                              |                                         |
| ∆P \[dB\]                    |                                         |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| 0                            | ±0.5                                    |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| 1                            | ±0.5                                    |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| 2                            | ±1.0                                    |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| 3                            | ±1.5                                    |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| 4 ≤ Δ P ≤ 7                 | ±2.0                                    |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+

Table 5.7A.1AA: Transmitter power step tolerance for exceptions

  ------------------------------------------------ -----------------------------------------
  Nominal power step size (Up or down) ∆P \[dB\]   Transmitter power step tolerance \[dB\]
  0                                                +/- 0.5
  1                                                +/- 1.5
  2                                                +/- 1.5
  3                                                +/- 1.5
  4 ≤ Δ P ≤ 7                                     +/- 2.0
  ------------------------------------------------ -----------------------------------------

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\], clause
6.5.5.1.

### 5.7A.3 Test purpose

To verify that the changes in uplink transmit power when transmitting
the HS-DPCCH (Ack/Nack and CQI) and the power between HS-DPCCH
transmissions are within the allowed power step tolerances as shown in
table 5.7A.2 and 5.7A.3. The test is carried out at max power with
TPC\_cmd=1 and at a nominal power of 0 dBm at the minimum point of the
12ms transmit pattern (HS-DPCCH off).

### 5.7A.4 Method of test

##### 5.7A.4.1 Initial conditions {#a.4.1-initial-conditions-6 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.1.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK version) are specified in Annex C.10.1 and
C.8.1.1.

3\) An HSDPA call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.6.
RF parameters are set up according to table E.5.1 and table E.5.10.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.7A.1A.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

Table 5.7A.1A: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of
HS-DPCCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.7A.4.1                 |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

##### 5.7A.4.2 Procedure {#a.4.2-procedure-6 .H6}

1\) Send TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to set the beta
values defined in table C.10.1.4 subtest 3 and the DPCH frame offset
according the HS-DPCCH half slot offset required for measurements. This
will create a signal with a repeat pattern of 12ms. The Uplink DPCH
Power Control Info shall initially specify the Power Control Algorithm
as algorithm 2 for interpreting TPC commands.

2\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS to set the output power
of the UE, measured at the UE antenna connector when the HS-DPCCH is not
transmitted, to be in the range 0 dBm ± 2dB. This is a nominal setting
and not part of the test requirements.

5\) Figure 5.7A.2 shows the 12ms cycle created when using the TRANSPORT
CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message from Annex I with the test specific
message content defined below and with TPC\_cmd=0. Measure the mean
power during the half slot periods either side of the measurement points
specified on figure 5.7A.2. The 25us transient periods at the end of
each half slot period shall not be included. Measurement points 4, 8 and
11 are at the DPCCH slot boundaries just after and just before the
HS-DPCCH transmission. Evaluate the difference in mean power to
determine the power steps around the measurement points shown in Figure
5.7A.2. The power steps shall meet the test requirements in table
5.7A.2.

6\) Reconfigure the uplink DPCH power control Info to use Algorithm 1
with 1 dB step size. Set and send continuously Up power control commands
to the UE until the UE output power during HS-DPCCH ACK/NACK
transmission reaches the maximum as defined in table 5.2A.1.

7\) Figure 5.7A.3 shows the 12ms cycle created when using TPC\_cmd=1.
Measure the mean power during the half slot periods either side of the
measurement points specified on figure 5.7A.3. The 25us transient
periods at the end of each half slot period shall not be included.
Measurement points 5, 10 and 13 are at the DPCCH slot boundaries in
between the HS-DPCCH transmissions. The last downward step prior to the
HS-DPCCH transmission is not tested due to the accumulation of
tolerances making the test requirement very wide. Evaluate the
difference in mean power to determine the power steps around the
measurement points shown in Figure 5.7A.3. The transmitter power steps
shall meet the test requirements in table 5.7A.3, with upto two
exceptions as defined in Table 5.7A.4 allowed for 1-dB step size in each
direction.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-3 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9 of TS 34.108 \[3\], except the
TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message which is defined in Annex I.
The test specific content for the TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION
message is as follows:

  ------------------------------- --------------
  Information Element             Value/remark
  \- Ack-Nack repetition factor   1
  \- CQI repetition factor        1
  ------------------------------- --------------

### 5.7A.5 Test requirements

![](media/image23.wmf){width="5.995138888888889in" height="2.14375in"}

Figure 5.7A.2: Transmit power template below max power with TPC\_cmd = 0

![](media/image24.wmf){width="5.995138888888889in"
height="2.2784722222222222in"}

Figure 5.7A.3: Transmit power template at max power with TPC\_cmd = 1

The difference in mean power derived in steps 5) and 7), shall not
exceed the allowed transmitter power step range in table 5.7A.2 and
5.7A.3 respectively.

The UL reference measurement channel for TX test will be set as defined
in C.10.1 with the power ratio between HS-DPCH, DPCCH and DPDCH being
set to the values defined in table C.10.1.4 sub-test 3.

Table 5.7A.2: Transmitter power test requirements for TPC\_cmd=0

  ---------------------------- ------------ ------------------------------------ ------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------
  Sub-test in table C.10.1.4   Power step   Nominal Power step size, ∆P \[dB\]   Rounded Power step size, ∆P \[dB\]   Transmitter power step Tolerance \[dB\]   Allowed Transmitter power step range \[dB\]
  3                            1            6.14                                 6                                    +/- 2.3                                   3.7 to 8.44
                               2            -1.38                                -1                                   +/- 0.6                                   -1.98 to -0.4
                               3            -4.76                                -5                                   +/- 2.3                                   -7.3 to -2.46
                               4^1^         0                                    0                                    +/- 0.6                                   -0.6 to 0.6
                               5            4.76                                 5                                    +/- 2.3                                   2.46 to 7.3
                               6            1.38                                 1                                    +/- 0.6                                   0.4 to 1.98
                               7            -6.14                                -6                                   +/- 2.3                                   -8.44 to -3.7
                               8^1^         0                                    0                                    +/- 0.6                                   -0.6 to 0.6
                               9            4.76                                 5                                    +/- 2.3                                   2.46 to 7.3
                               10           -4.76                                -5                                   +/- 2.3                                   -7.3 to -2.46
                               11^1^        0                                    0                                    +/- 0.6                                   -0.6 to 0.6
  NOTE 1: Two test points.                                                                                                                                      
  ---------------------------- ------------ ------------------------------------ ------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------

Table 5.7A.3: Transmitter power test requirements for TPC\_cmd=1

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Sub-test | Power    | Nominal  | Rounded  | Tra      | Allowed  |
| in table | step     | Power    | Power    | nsmitter | Tra      |
| C.10.1.4 |          | step     | step     | power    | nsmitter |
|          |          | size, ∆P | size, ∆P | step     | power    |
|          |          | \[dB\]   | \[dB\]   | T        | step     |
|          |          |          |          | olerance | range    |
|          |          |          |          | \[dB\]   | \[dB\]   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 3        | 1        | 6.14     | 6        | +/- 2.3  | 3.7 to   |
|          |          |          |          |          | 8.44     |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 2        | -1.38    | -1       | +/- 0.6  | -1.98 to |
|          |          |          |          |          | -0.4     |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 3^3^     | No       | No       | NA       | No       |
|          |          | requ     | requ     |          | requ     |
|          |          | irements | irements |          | irements |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 4        | -4.76    | -5       | +/- 2.3  | -7.3 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | -2.46    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 5^1^     | 1        | 1        | +/- 0.6  | 0.4 to   |
|          |          |          |          |          | 1.6      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 6        | 4.76     | 5        | +/- 2.3  | 2.46 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | 7.3      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 7^3^     | No       | No       | NA       | No       |
|          |          | Requ     | requ     |          | requ     |
|          |          | irements | irements |          | irements |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 8        | 1.38     | 1        | +/- 0.6  | 0.40 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | 1.98     |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 9        | -6.14    | -6       | +/- 2.3  | -8.44 to |
|          |          |          |          |          | -3.7     |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 10^2^    | 1        | 1        | +/- 0.6  | 0.4 to   |
|          |          |          |          |          | 1.6      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 11       | 4.76     | 5        | +/- 2.3  | 2.46 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | 7.3      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 12       | -4.76    | -5       | +/- 2.3  | -7.3 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | -2.46    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 13^2^    | 1        | 1        | +/- 0.6  | 0.4 to   |
|          |          |          |          |          | 1.6      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Three    |          |          |          |          |          |
| test     |          |          |          |          |          |
| points.  |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Two test |          |          |          |          |          |
| points.  |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 3:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| In these |          |          |          |          |          |
| test     |          |          |          |          |          |
| points   |          |          |          |          |          |
| rel-6 UE |          |          |          |          |          |
| performs |          |          |          |          |          |
| ad       |          |          |          |          |          |
| ditional |          |          |          |          |          |
| power    |          |          |          |          |          |
| scaling  |          |          |          |          |          |
| due to   |          |          |          |          |          |
| changes  |          |          |          |          |          |
| in       |          |          |          |          |          |
| allowed  |          |          |          |          |          |
| MPR, and |          |          |          |          |          |
| t        |          |          |          |          |          |
| herefore |          |          |          |          |          |
| there    |          |          |          |          |          |
| are no   |          |          |          |          |          |
| requ     |          |          |          |          |          |
| irements |          |          |          |          |          |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |
| pecified |          |          |          |          |          |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |
| tra      |          |          |          |          |          |
| nsmitter |          |          |          |          |          |
| power    |          |          |          |          |          |
| steps.   |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

Table 5.7A.4: Exceptions for Transmitter power test requirements for
TPC\_cmd=1

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Sub-test | Power    | Nominal  | Rounded  | Tra      | Allowed  |
| in table | step     | Power    | Power    | nsmitter | Tra      |
| C.10.1.4 |          | step     | step     | power    | nsmitter |
|          |          | size, ∆P | size, ∆P | step     | power    |
|          |          | \[dB\]   | \[dB\]   | T        | step     |
|          |          |          |          | olerance | range    |
|          |          |          |          | \[dB\]   | \[dB\]   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 3        | 5^1^     | 1        | 1        | +/- 1.6  | -0.6 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | 2.6      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 10^2^    | 1        | 1        | +/- 1.6  | -0.6 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | 2.6      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 13^2^    | 1        | 1        | +/- 1.6  | -0.6 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | 2.6      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Three    |          |          |          |          |          |
| test     |          |          |          |          |          |
| points.  |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Two test |          |          |          |          |          |
| points.  |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.7BA HS-DPCCH power control for UL OLTD
----------------------------------------

Editor's notes:

\- For a transition period unti Ran5\#73, this test case in version
12.3.0 of 34.121-1 shall be used.

### 5.7BA.1 Definition and applicability

The transmission of Ack/Nack or CQI over the HS-DPCCH may cause the
transmission power in the uplink to vary. The ratio of the amplitude
between the DPCCH and the Ack/Nack and CQI respectively is signalled by
higher layers.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL OLTD and HSDPA.

### 5.7BA.2 Minimum requirement

The nominal sum power on DPCCH+S-DPCCH+DPDCH is independent of the
transmission of Ack/Nack and CQI unless the UE output power when
Ack/Nack or CQI is transmitted would exceed the maximum value specified
in Table 5.2A.1 or fall below the value specified in 5.4.3.2, whereupon
the UE may then also apply additional scaling to the total transmit
power as defined in clause 5.1.2.6 of TS.25.214 \[5\].

The composite transmitted power (DPCCH + S-DPCCH+DPDCH+HS-DPCCH) may
then also be rounded to the closest integer dB value. If rounding is
done a power step exactly half-way between two integer values shall be
rounded to the closest integer of greater magnitude.

The nominal power step due to transmission of Ack/Nack or CQI is defined
as the difference between the nominal mean powers of two power
evaluation periods either side of an HS-DPCCH boundary. The first
evaluation period starts 25 μs after a DPCCH slot boundary and ends 25μs
before the following HS-DPCCH slot boundary. The second evaluation
period starts 25 μs after the same HS-DPCCH slot boundary and ends 25 μs
before the following DPCCH slot boundary.

The tolerance of the power step due to transmission of the HS-DPCCH
shall meet the requirements in table 5.7BA.1. For each direction, up to
2 exceptions to the transmitter power step tolerance defined in table
5.7BA.1 shall be allowed. The transmitter power control range for
exceptions is defined in table 5.7BA.2. Exceptions are applicable only
if the change in UL power is measured per 1-dB step size.

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL OLTD ,
tolerance of the power step due to transmission of the HS-DPCCH shall
meet the requirements at each transmit antenna connector.

Table 5.7BA.1: Transmitter power step tolerance

+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| Power step size (Up or down) | Transmitter power step tolerance \[dB\] |
|                              |                                         |
| ∆P \[dB\]                    |                                         |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| 0                            | ±0.5                                    |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| 1                            | ±0.5                                    |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| 2                            | ±1.0                                    |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| 3                            | ±1.5                                    |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| 4 ≤ Δ P ≤ 7                 | ±2.0                                    |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+

Table 5.7BA.1AA: Transmitter power step tolerance for exceptions

  ------------------------------------------------ -----------------------------------------
  Nominal power step size (Up or down) ∆P \[dB\]   Transmitter power step tolerance \[dB\]
  0                                                +/- 0.5
  1                                                +/- 1.5
  2                                                +/- 1.5
  3                                                +/- 1.5
  4 ≤ Δ P ≤ 7                                     +/- 2.0
  ------------------------------------------------ -----------------------------------------

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\], clause
6.5.5.1B.

### 5.7BA.3 Test purpose

To verify that the changes in uplink transmit power for UL OLTD when
transmitting the HS-DPCCH (Ack/Nack and CQI) and the power between
HS-DPCCH transmissions are within the allowed power step tolerances as
shown in table 5.7BA.2 and 5.7BA.3. The test is carried out at max power
with TPC\_cmd=1 and at a nominal power of 0 dBm at the minimum point of
the 12ms transmit pattern (HS-DPCCH off).

### 5.7BA.4 Method of test

#### 5.7BA.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK version) are specified in Annex C.10.2 and
C.8.1.1.

3\) An HSDPA call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.18.
RF parameters are set up according to table E.5.1 and table E.5.10.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.7BA.1A.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

Table 5.7BA.1A: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of
HS-DPCCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.7BA.4.1                |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

#### 5.7BA.4.2 Procedure

1\) Send TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to set the beta
values defined in table C.10.2.4 subtest 3 and the DPCH frame offset
according the HS-DPCCH half slot offset required for measurements. This
will create a signal with a repeat pattern of 12ms. The Uplink DPCH
Power Control Info shall initially specify the Power Control Algorithm
as algorithm 2 for interpreting TPC commands.

2\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS to set the output power
of the UE, measured at the UE antenna connector when the HS-DPCCH is not
transmitted, to be in the range 0 dBm ± 2dB. This is a nominal setting
and not part of the test requirements.

5\) Figure 5.7BA.1 shows the 12ms cycle created when using the TRANSPORT
CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message from Annex I with the test specific
message content defined below and with TPC\_cmd=0. Measure the mean
power during the half slot periods either side of the measurement points
specified on figure 5.7BA.1. The 25us transient periods at the end of
each half slot period shall not be included. Measurement points 4, 8 and
11 are at the DPCCH slot boundaries just after and just before the
HS-DPCCH transmission. Evaluate the difference in mean power to
determine the power steps around the measurement points shown in Figure
5.7BA.1. The power steps shall meet the test requirements in table
5.7BA.2.

6\) Reconfigure the uplink DPCH power control Info to use Algorithm 1
with 1 dB step size. Set and send continuously Up power control commands
to the UE until the UE output power during HS-DPCCH ACK/NACK
transmission reaches the maximum as defined in table 5.2A.1.

7\) Figure 5.7BA.2 shows the 12ms cycle created when using TPC\_cmd=1.
Measure the mean power during the half slot periods either side of the
measurement points specified on figure 5.7BA.2. The 25us transient
periods at the end of each half slot period shall not be included.
Measurement points 5, 10 and 13 are at the DPCCH slot boundaries in
between the HS-DPCCH transmissions. The last downward step prior to the
HS-DPCCH transmission is not tested due to the accumulation of
tolerances making the test requirement very wide. Evaluate the
difference in mean power to determine the power steps around the
measurement points shown in Figure 5.7BA.2. The transmitter power steps
shall meet the test requirements in table 5.7BA.3, with upto two
exceptions as defined in Table 5.7BA.4 allowed for 1-dB step size in
each direction.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-4 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9 of TS 34.108 \[3\], except the
TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message which is defined in Annex I.
The test specific content for the TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION
message is as follows:

  ------------------------------- --------------
  Information Element             Value/remark
  \- Ack-Nack repetition factor   1
  \- CQI repetition factor        1
  ------------------------------- --------------

### 5.7BA.5 Test requirements

Figure 5.7BA.1: Transmit power template below max power with TPC\_cmd =
0

Figure 5.7BA.2: Transmit power template at max power with TPC\_cmd = 1

The difference in mean power derived in steps 5) and 7), shall not
exceed the allowed transmitter power step range in table 5.7BA.2 and
5.7BA.3 respectively.

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL OLTD, the
difference in mean power requirements applies at each transmit antenna
connector.

The UL reference measurement channel for TX test will be set as defined
in C.10.2 with the power ratio between HS-DPCH, DPCCH and DPDCH being
set to the values defined in table C.10.2.4 sub-test 3.

Table 5.7BA.2: Transmitter power test requirements for TPC\_cmd=0

  ---------------------------- ------------ ------------------------------------ ------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------
  Sub-test in table C.10.2.4   Power step   Nominal Power step size, ∆P \[dB\]   Rounded Power step size, ∆P \[dB\]   Transmitter power step Tolerance \[dB\]   Allowed Transmitter power step range \[dB\]
  3                            1            6.14                                 6                                    +/- 2.3                                   3.7 to 8.44
                               2            -1.38                                -1                                   +/- 0.6                                   -1.98 to -0.4
                               3            -4.76                                -5                                   +/- 2.3                                   -7.3 to -2.46
                               4^1^         0                                    0                                    +/- 0.6                                   -0.6 to 0.6
                               5            4.76                                 5                                    +/- 2.3                                   2.46 to 7.3
                               6            1.38                                 1                                    +/- 0.6                                   0.4 to 1.98
                               7            -6.14                                -6                                   +/- 2.3                                   -8.44 to -3.7
                               8^1^         0                                    0                                    +/- 0.6                                   -0.6 to 0.6
                               9            4.76                                 5                                    +/- 2.3                                   2.46 to 7.3
                               10           -4.76                                -5                                   +/- 2.3                                   -7.3 to -2.46
                               11^1^        0                                    0                                    +/- 0.6                                   -0.6 to 0.6
  NOTE 1: Two test points.                                                                                                                                      
  ---------------------------- ------------ ------------------------------------ ------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------

Table 5.7BA.3: Transmitter power test requirements for TPC\_cmd=1

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Sub-test | Power    | Nominal  | Rounded  | Tra      | Allowed  |
| in table | step     | Power    | Power    | nsmitter | Tra      |
| C.10.2.4 |          | step     | step     | power    | nsmitter |
|          |          | size, ∆P | size, ∆P | step     | power    |
|          |          | \[dB\]   | \[dB\]   | T        | step     |
|          |          |          |          | olerance | range    |
|          |          |          |          | \[dB\]   | \[dB\]   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 3        | 1        | 6.14     | 6        | +/- 2.3  | 3.7 to   |
|          |          |          |          |          | 8.44     |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 2        | -1.38    | -1       | +/- 0.6  | -1.98 to |
|          |          |          |          |          | -0.4     |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 3^3^     | No       | No       | NA       | No       |
|          |          | requ     | requ     |          | requ     |
|          |          | irements | irements |          | irements |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 4        | -4.76    | -5       | +/- 2.3  | -7.3 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | -2.46    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 5^1^     | 1        | 1        | +/- 0.6  | 0.4 to   |
|          |          |          |          |          | 1.6      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 6        | 4.76     | 5        | +/- 2.3  | 2.46 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | 7.3      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 7^3^     | No       | No       | NA       | No       |
|          |          | Requ     | requ     |          | requ     |
|          |          | irements | irements |          | irements |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 8        | 1.38     | 1        | +/- 0.6  | 0.40 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | 1.98     |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 9        | -6.14    | -6       | +/- 2.3  | -8.44 to |
|          |          |          |          |          | -3.7     |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 10^2^    | 1        | 1        | +/- 0.6  | 0.4 to   |
|          |          |          |          |          | 1.6      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 11       | 4.76     | 5        | +/- 2.3  | 2.46 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | 7.3      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 12       | -4.76    | -5       | +/- 2.3  | -7.3 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | -2.46    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 13^2^    | 1        | 1        | +/- 0.6  | 0.4 to   |
|          |          |          |          |          | 1.6      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Three    |          |          |          |          |          |
| test     |          |          |          |          |          |
| points.  |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Two test |          |          |          |          |          |
| points.  |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 3:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| In these |          |          |          |          |          |
| test     |          |          |          |          |          |
| points   |          |          |          |          |          |
| rel-6 UE |          |          |          |          |          |
| performs |          |          |          |          |          |
| ad       |          |          |          |          |          |
| ditional |          |          |          |          |          |
| power    |          |          |          |          |          |
| scaling  |          |          |          |          |          |
| due to   |          |          |          |          |          |
| changes  |          |          |          |          |          |
| in       |          |          |          |          |          |
| allowed  |          |          |          |          |          |
| MPR, and |          |          |          |          |          |
| t        |          |          |          |          |          |
| herefore |          |          |          |          |          |
| there    |          |          |          |          |          |
| are no   |          |          |          |          |          |
| requ     |          |          |          |          |          |
| irements |          |          |          |          |          |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |
| pecified |          |          |          |          |          |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |
| tra      |          |          |          |          |          |
| nsmitter |          |          |          |          |          |
| power    |          |          |          |          |          |
| steps.   |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

Table 5.7BA.4: Exceptions for Transmitter power test requirements for
TPC\_cmd=1

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Sub-test | Power    | Nominal  | Rounded  | Tra      | Allowed  |
| in table | step     | Power    | Power    | nsmitter | Tra      |
| C.10.1.4 |          | step     | step     | power    | nsmitter |
|          |          | size, ∆P | size, ∆P | step     | power    |
|          |          | \[dB\]   | \[dB\]   | T        | step     |
|          |          |          |          | olerance | range    |
|          |          |          |          | \[dB\]   | \[dB\]   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 3        | 5^1^     | 1        | 1        | +/- 1.6  | -0.6 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | 2.6      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 10^2^    | 1        | 1        | +/- 1.6  | -0.6 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | 2.6      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 13^2^    | 1        | 1        | +/- 1.6  | -0.6 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | 2.6      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Three    |          |          |          |          |          |
| test     |          |          |          |          |          |
| points.  |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Two test |          |          |          |          |          |
| points.  |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.7BB HS-DPCCH power control for UL CLTD activation state 1
-----------------------------------------------------------

Editor's notes:

\- For a transition period unti Ran5\#73, this test case in version
12.3.0 of 34.121-1 shall be used.

### 5.7BB.1 Definition and applicability

The transmission of Ack/Nack or CQI over the HS-DPCCH may cause the
transmission power in the uplink to vary. The ratio of the amplitude
between the DPCCH and the Ack/Nack and CQI respectively is signalled by
higher layers.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL CLTD and HSDPA.

### 5.7BB.2 Minimum requirement

The nominal sum power on DPCCH+S-DPCCH+DPDCH is independent of the
transmission of Ack/Nack and CQI unless the UE output power when
Ack/Nack or CQI is transmitted would exceed the maximum value specified
in Table 5.2A.1 or fall below the value specified in 5.4.3.2, whereupon
the UE may then also apply additional scaling to the total transmit
power as defined in section 5.1.2.6 of TS 25.214 \[5\].

The composite transmitted power (DPCCH + S-DPCCH+DPDCH+HS-DPCCH) may
then also be rounded to the closest integer dB value. If rounding is
done a power step exactly half-way between two integer values shall be
rounded to the closest integer of greater magnitude.

The nominal power step due to transmission of Ack/Nack or CQI is defined
as the difference between the nominal mean powers of two power
evaluation periods either side of an HS-DPCCH boundary. The first
evaluation period starts 25 μs after a DPCCH slot boundary and ends 25μs
before the following HS-DPCCH slot boundary. The second evaluation
period starts 25 μs after the same HS-DPCCH slot boundary and ends 25 μs
before the following DPCCH slot boundary.

The tolerance of the power step due to transmission of the HS-DPCCH
shall meet the requirements in table 5.7BB.1. For each direction, up to
2 exceptions to the transmitter power step tolerance defined in table
5.7BB.1 shall be allowed. The transmitter power control range for
exceptions is defined in table 5.7BB.2. Exceptions are applicable only
if the change in UL power is measured per 1-dB step size.

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL CLTD activation
state 1, tolerance of the power step due to transmission of the HS-DPCCH
shall meet the requirements at each transmit antenna connector.

Table 5.7BB.1: Transmitter power step tolerance

+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| Power step size (Up or down) | Transmitter power step tolerance \[dB\] |
|                              |                                         |
| ∆P \[dB\]                    |                                         |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| 0                            | ±0.5                                    |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| 1                            | ±0.5                                    |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| 2                            | ±1.0                                    |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| 3                            | ±1.5                                    |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| 4 ≤ ΔP ≤ 7                   | ±2.0                                    |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+

Table 5.7BB.1AA: Transmitter power step tolerance for exceptions

  ------------------------------------------------ -----------------------------------------
  Nominal power step size (Up or down) ∆P \[dB\]   Transmitter power step tolerance \[dB\]
  0                                                +/- 0.5
  1                                                +/- 1.5
  2                                                +/- 1.5
  3                                                +/- 1.5
  4 ≤ Δ P ≤ 7                                     +/- 2.0
  ------------------------------------------------ -----------------------------------------

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\], clause
6.5.5.1B.

### 5.7BB.3 Test purpose

To verify that the changes in uplink transmit power for UL CLTD
activation state 1 when transmitting the HS-DPCCH (Ack/Nack and CQI) and
the power between HS-DPCCH transmissions are within the allowed power
step tolerances as shown in table 5.7BB.2 and 5.7BB.3. The test is
carried out at max power with TPC\_cmd=1 and at a nominal power of 0 dBm
at the minimum point of the 12ms transmit pattern (HS-DPCCH off).

### 5.7BB.4 Method of test

#### 5.7BB.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK version) are specified in Annex C.10.2 and
C.8.1.1.

3\) An HSDPA call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.17.
RF parameters are set up according to tables E.5.1 and E.5.10. Settings
for the serving cell are defined in table 5.7BB.1A.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

Table 5.7BB.1A: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of
HS-DPCCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.7BB.4.1                |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

#### 5.7BB.4.2 Procedure

1\) Send TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to set the beta
values defined in table C.10.2.4 subtest 3 and the DPCH frame offset
according the HS-DPCCH half slot offset required for measurements. This
will create a signal with a repeat pattern of 12ms. The Uplink DPCH
Power Control Info shall initially specify the Power Control Algorithm
as algorithm 2 for interpreting TPC commands.

2\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS to set the output power
of the UE, measured at the UE antenna connector when the HS-DPCCH is not
transmitted, to be in the range 0 dBm ± 2dB. This is a nominal setting
and not part of the test requirements.

5\) Figure 5.7BB.1 shows the 12ms cycle created when using the TRANSPORT
CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message from Annex I with the test specific
message content defined below and with TPC\_cmd=0. Measure the mean
power during the half slot periods either side of the measurement points
specified on figure 5.7BB.1. The 25us transient periods at the end of
each half slot period shall not be included. Measurement points 4, 8 and
11 are at the DPCCH slot boundaries just after and just before the
HS-DPCCH transmission. Evaluate the difference in mean power to
determine the power steps around the measurement points shown in Figure
5.7BB.1. The power steps shall meet the test requirements in table
5.7BB.2.

6\) Reconfigure the uplink DPCH power control Info to use Algorithm 1
with 1 dB step size. Set and send continuously Up power control commands
to the UE until the UE output power during HS-DPCCH ACK/NACK
transmission reaches the maximum as defined in table 5.2A.1.

7\) Figure 5.7BB.2 shows the 12ms cycle created when using TPC\_cmd=1.
Measure the mean power during the half slot periods either side of the
measurement points specified on figure 5.7BB.2. The 25us transient
periods at the end of each half slot period shall not be included.
Measurement points 5, 10 and 13 are at the DPCCH slot boundaries in
between the HS-DPCCH transmissions. The last downward step prior to the
HS-DPCCH transmission is not tested due to the accumulation of
tolerances making the test requirement very wide. Evaluate the
difference in mean power to determine the power steps around the
measurement points shown in Figure 5.7BB.2. The transmitter power steps
shall meet the test requirements in table 5.7BB.3, with upto two
exceptions as defined in Table 5.7BB.4 allowed for 1-dB step size in
each direction.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-5 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9 of TS 34.108 \[3\], except the
TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message which is defined in Annex I.
The test specific content for the TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION
message is as follows:

  ------------------------------- --------------
  Information Element             Value/remark
  \- Ack-Nack repetition factor   1
  \- CQI repetition factor        1
  ------------------------------- --------------

### 5.7BB.5 Test requirements

Figure 5.7BB.1: Transmit power template below max power with TPC\_cmd =
0

Figure 5.7BB.2: Transmit power template at max power with TPC\_cmd = 1

The difference in mean power derived in steps 5) and 7), shall not
exceed the allowed transmitter power step range in table 5.7BB.2 and
5.7BB.3 respectively.

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL CLTD activation
state 1, the difference in mean power requirements applies at each
transmit antenna connector.

The UL reference measurement channel for TX test will be set as defined
in C.10.2 with the power ratio between HS-DPCH, DPCCH and DPDCH being
set to the values defined in table C.10.2.4 sub-test 3.

Table 5.7BB.2: Transmitter power test requirements for TPC\_cmd=0

  ---------------------------- ------------ ------------------------------------ ------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------
  Sub-test in table C.10.2.4   Power step   Nominal Power step size, ∆P \[dB\]   Rounded Power step size, ∆P \[dB\]   Transmitter power step Tolerance \[dB\]   Allowed Transmitter power step range \[dB\]
  3                            1            6.14                                 6                                    +/- 2.3                                   3.7 to 8.44
                               2            -1.38                                -1                                   +/- 0.6                                   -1.98 to -0.4
                               3            -4.76                                -5                                   +/- 2.3                                   -7.3 to -2.46
                               4^1^         0                                    0                                    +/- 0.6                                   -0.6 to 0.6
                               5            4.76                                 5                                    +/- 2.3                                   2.46 to 7.3
                               6            1.38                                 1                                    +/- 0.6                                   0.4 to 1.98
                               7            -6.14                                -6                                   +/- 2.3                                   -8.44 to -3.7
                               8^1^         0                                    0                                    +/- 0.6                                   -0.6 to 0.6
                               9            4.76                                 5                                    +/- 2.3                                   2.46 to 7.3
                               10           -4.76                                -5                                   +/- 2.3                                   -7.3 to -2.46
                               11^1^        0                                    0                                    +/- 0.6                                   -0.6 to 0.6
  NOTE 1: Two test points.                                                                                                                                      
  ---------------------------- ------------ ------------------------------------ ------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------

Table 5.7BB.3: Transmitter power test requirements for TPC\_cmd=1

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Sub-test | Power    | Nominal  | Rounded  | Tra      | Allowed  |
| in table | step     | Power    | Power    | nsmitter | Tra      |
| C.10.2.4 |          | step     | step     | power    | nsmitter |
|          |          | size, ∆P | size, ∆P | step     | power    |
|          |          | \[dB\]   | \[dB\]   | T        | step     |
|          |          |          |          | olerance | range    |
|          |          |          |          | \[dB\]   | \[dB\]   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 3        | 1        | 6.14     | 6        | +/- 2.3  | 3.7 to   |
|          |          |          |          |          | 8.44     |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 2        | -1.38    | -1       | +/- 0.6  | -1.98 to |
|          |          |          |          |          | -0.4     |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 3^3^     | No       | No       | NA       | No       |
|          |          | requ     | requ     |          | requ     |
|          |          | irements | irements |          | irements |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 4        | -4.76    | -5       | +/- 2.3  | -7.3 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | -2.46    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 5^1^     | 1        | 1        | +/- 0.6  | 0.4 to   |
|          |          |          |          |          | 1.6      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 6        | 4.76     | 5        | +/- 2.3  | 2.46 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | 7.3      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 7^3^     | No       | No       | NA       | No       |
|          |          | Requ     | requ     |          | requ     |
|          |          | irements | irements |          | irements |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 8        | 1.38     | 1        | +/- 0.6  | 0.40 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | 1.98     |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 9        | -6.14    | -6       | +/- 2.3  | -8.44 to |
|          |          |          |          |          | -3.7     |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 10^2^    | 1        | 1        | +/- 0.6  | 0.4 to   |
|          |          |          |          |          | 1.6      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 11       | 4.76     | 5        | +/- 2.3  | 2.46 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | 7.3      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 12       | -4.76    | -5       | +/- 2.3  | -7.3 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | -2.46    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 13^2^    | 1        | 1        | +/- 0.6  | 0.4 to   |
|          |          |          |          |          | 1.6      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Three    |          |          |          |          |          |
| test     |          |          |          |          |          |
| points.  |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Two test |          |          |          |          |          |
| points.  |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 3:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| In these |          |          |          |          |          |
| test     |          |          |          |          |          |
| points   |          |          |          |          |          |
| rel-6 UE |          |          |          |          |          |
| performs |          |          |          |          |          |
| ad       |          |          |          |          |          |
| ditional |          |          |          |          |          |
| power    |          |          |          |          |          |
| scaling  |          |          |          |          |          |
| due to   |          |          |          |          |          |
| changes  |          |          |          |          |          |
| in       |          |          |          |          |          |
| allowed  |          |          |          |          |          |
| MPR, and |          |          |          |          |          |
| t        |          |          |          |          |          |
| herefore |          |          |          |          |          |
| there    |          |          |          |          |          |
| are no   |          |          |          |          |          |
| requ     |          |          |          |          |          |
| irements |          |          |          |          |          |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |
| pecified |          |          |          |          |          |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |
| tra      |          |          |          |          |          |
| nsmitter |          |          |          |          |          |
| power    |          |          |          |          |          |
| steps.   |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

Table 5.7BB.4: Exceptions for Transmitter power test requirements for
TPC\_cmd=1

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Sub-test | Power    | Nominal  | Rounded  | Tra      | Allowed  |
| in table | step     | Power    | Power    | nsmitter | Tra      |
| C.10.1.4 |          | step     | step     | power    | nsmitter |
|          |          | size, ∆P | size, ∆P | step     | power    |
|          |          | \[dB\]   | \[dB\]   | T        | step     |
|          |          |          |          | olerance | range    |
|          |          |          |          | \[dB\]   | \[dB\]   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 3        | 5^1^     | 1        | 1        | +/- 1.6  | -0.6 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | 2.6      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 10^2^    | 1        | 1        | +/- 1.6  | -0.6 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | 2.6      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 13^2^    | 1        | 1        | +/- 1.6  | -0.6 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | 2.6      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Three    |          |          |          |          |          |
| test     |          |          |          |          |          |
| points.  |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Two test |          |          |          |          |          |
| points.  |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.7BC HS-DPCCH power control for UL CLTD activation state 2 and 3
-----------------------------------------------------------------

Editor's notes:

\- For a transition period unti Ran5\#73, this test case in version
12.3.0 of 34.121-1 shall be used.

### 5.7BC.1 Definition and applicability

The transmission of Ack/Nack or CQI over the HS-DPCCH may cause the
transmission power in the uplink to vary. The ratio of the amplitude
between the DPCCH and the Ack/Nack and CQI respectively is signalled by
higher layers.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL CLTD and HSDPA.

### 5.7BC.2 Minimum requirement

The nominal sum power on DPCCH +DPDCH is independent of the transmission
of Ack/Nack and CQI unless the UE output power when Ack/Nack or CQI is
transmitted would exceed the maximum value specified in Table 5.2A.1 or
fall below the value specified in 5.4.3.2, whereupon the UE may then
also apply additional scaling to the total transmit power as defined in
section 5.1.2.6 of TS.25.214 \[5\].

The composite transmitted power (DPCCH +DPDCH+HS-DPCCH) may then also be
rounded to the closest integer dB value. If rounding is done a power
step exactly half-way between two integer values shall be rounded to the
closest integer of greater magnitude.

The nominal power step due to transmission of Ack/Nack or CQI is defined
as the difference between the nominal mean powers of two power
evaluation periods either side of an HS-DPCCH boundary. The first
evaluation period starTS 25 μs after a DPCCH slot boundary and ends 25μs
before the following HS-DPCCH slot boundary. The second evaluation
period starTS 25 μs after the same HS-DPCCH slot boundary and ends 25 μs
before the following DPCCH slot boundary.

The tolerance of the power step due to transmission of the HS-DPCCH
shall meet the requirements in table 5.7BC.1. For each direction, up to
2 exceptions to the transmitter power step tolerance defined in table
5.7BC.1 shall be allowed. The transmitter power control range for
exceptions is defined in table 5.7BC.2. Exceptions are applicable only
if the change in UL power is measured per 1-dB step size

For UE configured in UL CLTD activation state 2 or activation state 3,
tolerance of the power step due to transmission of the HS-DPCCH shall
meet the requirements at active transmit antenna connector.

Table 5.7BC.1: Transmitter power step tolerance

+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| Power step size (Up or down) | Transmitter power step tolerance \[dB\] |
|                              |                                         |
| ∆P \[dB\]                    |                                         |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| 0                            | ±0.5                                    |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| 1                            | ±0.5                                    |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| 2                            | ±1.0                                    |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| 3                            | ±1.5                                    |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| 4 ≤ ΔP ≤ 7                   | ±2.0                                    |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+

Table 5.7BC.1AA: Transmitter power step tolerance for exceptions

  ------------------------------------------------ -----------------------------------------
  Nominal power step size (Up or down) ∆P \[dB\]   Transmitter power step tolerance \[dB\]
  0                                                +/- 0.5
  1                                                +/- 1.5
  2                                                +/- 1.5
  3                                                +/- 1.5
  4 ≤ Δ P ≤ 7                                     +/- 2.0
  ------------------------------------------------ -----------------------------------------

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\],
clause 6.5.5.1B.

### 5.7BC.3 Test purpose

To verify that the changes in uplink transmit power for UL CLTD
activation state 2 and 3 when transmitting the HS-DPCCH (Ack/Nack and
CQI) and the power between HS-DPCCH transmissions are within the allowed
power step tolerances as shown in table 5.7BC.2 and 5.7BC.3. The test is
carried out at max power with TPC\_cmd=1 and at a nominal power of 0 dBm
at the minimum point of the 12ms transmit pattern (HS-DPCCH off).

### 5.7BC.4 Method of test

#### 5.7BC.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK version) are specified in Annex C, clauses
C.10.1 and C.8.1.1.

3\) An HSDPA call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.17
with the following exception in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages in table
5.7BC.1B. This exception allows the call to be setup with initial UL
CLTD activation state as state 2. RF parameters are set up according to
tables E.5.1 and E.5.10. Settings for the serving cell are defined in
table 5.7BC.1A.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

Table 5.7BC.1A: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of
HS-DPCCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.7BC.4.1                |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

Table 5.7BC.1B: Contents of Radio bearer setup message

  ---------------------------------- -------------- ---------
  Information Element                Value/remark   Version
  Uplink CLTD info FDD                              Rel-11
  \- CHOICE *Mode*                   New            
  \- Initial CLTD activation state   Second state   
  ---------------------------------- -------------- ---------

#### 5.7BC.4.2 Procedure

1\) Send TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to set the beta
values defined in table C.10.1.4 subtest 3 and the DPCH frame offset
according the HS-DPCCH half slot offset required for measurements. This
will create a signal with a repeat pattern of 12ms. The Uplink DPCH
Power Control Info shall initially specify the Power Control Algorithm
as algorithm 2 for interpreting TPC commands.

2\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS to set the output power
of the UE, measured at the UE antenna connector when the HS-DPCCH is not
transmitted, to be in the range 0 dBm ± 2dB. This is a nominal setting
and not part of the test requirements.

5\) Figure 5.7BC.1 shows the 12ms cycle created when using the TRANSPORT
CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message from Annex I with the test specific
message content defined below and with TPC\_cmd=0. Measure the mean
power during the half slot periods either side of the measurement points
specified on figure 5.7BC.1. The 25us transient periods at the end of
each half slot period shall not be included. Measurement points 4, 8 and
11 are at the DPCCH slot boundaries just after and just before the
HS-DPCCH transmission. Evaluate the difference in mean power to
determine the power steps around the measurement points shown in Figure
5.7BC.1. The power steps shall meet the test requirements in table
5.7BC.2.

6\) Reconfigure the uplink DPCH power control Info to use Algorithm 1
with 1 dB step size. Set and send continuously Up power control commands
to the UE until the UE output power during HS-DPCCH ACK/NACK
transmission reaches the maximum as defined in table 5.2A.1.

7\) Figure 5.7BC.2 shows the 12ms cycle created when using TPC\_cmd=1.
Measure the mean power during the half slot periods either side of the
measurement points specified on figure 5.7BC.2. The 25us transient
periods at the end of each half slot period shall not be included.
Measurement points 5, 10 and 13 are at the DPCCH slot boundaries in
between the HS-DPCCH transmissions. The last downward step prior to the
HS-DPCCH transmission is not tested due to the accumulation of
tolerances making the test requirement very wide. Evaluate the
difference in mean power to determine the power steps around the
measurement points shown in Figure 5.7BC.2. The transmitter power steps
shall meet the test requirements in table 5.7BC.3, with upto two
exceptions as defined in Table 5.7BC.4 allowed for 1-dB step size in
each direction.

> 8\) SS sends a HS-SCCH order now to move the UE in UL\_CLTD activation
> state 3.
>
> 9\) Repeat step 1 to 7 for activation state 3

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-6 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9 of TS 34.108 \[3\], except the
TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message which is defined in Annex I.
The test specific content for the TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION
message is as follows:

  ------------------------------- --------------
  Information Element             Value/remark
  \- Ack-Nack repetition factor   1
  \- CQI repetition factor        1
  ------------------------------- --------------

### 5.7BC.5 Test requirements

Figure 5.7BC.1: Transmit power template below max power with TPC\_cmd =
0

Figure 5.7BC.2: Transmit power template at max power with TPC\_cmd = 1

The difference in mean power derived in steps 5) and 7), shall not
exceed the allowed transmitter power step range in table 5.7BC.2 and
5.7BC.3 respectively.

For UE configured in UL CLTD activation state 2 or activation state 3,
the difference in mean power requirements applies at active transmit
antenna connector.

The UL reference measurement channel for TX test will be set as defined
in C.10.1 with the power ratio between HS-DPCH, DPCCH and DPDCH being
set to the values defined in table C.10.1.4 sub-test 3.

Table 5.7BC.2: Transmitter power test requirements for TPC\_cmd=0

  ---------------------------- ------------ ------------------------------------ ------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------
  Sub-test in table C.10.1.4   Power step   Nominal Power step size, ∆P \[dB\]   Rounded Power step size, ∆P \[dB\]   Transmitter power step Tolerance \[dB\]   Allowed Transmitter power step range \[dB\]
  3                            1            6.14                                 6                                    +/- 2.3                                   3.7 to 8.44
                               2            -1.38                                -1                                   +/- 0.6                                   -1.98 to -0.4
                               3            -4.76                                -5                                   +/- 2.3                                   -7.3 to -2.46
                               4^1^         0                                    0                                    +/- 0.6                                   -0.6 to 0.6
                               5            4.76                                 5                                    +/- 2.3                                   2.46 to 7.3
                               6            1.38                                 1                                    +/- 0.6                                   0.4 to 1.98
                               7            -6.14                                -6                                   +/- 2.3                                   -8.44 to -3.7
                               8^1^         0                                    0                                    +/- 0.6                                   -0.6 to 0.6
                               9            4.76                                 5                                    +/- 2.3                                   2.46 to 7.3
                               10           -4.76                                -5                                   +/- 2.3                                   -7.3 to -2.46
                               11^1^        0                                    0                                    +/- 0.6                                   -0.6 to 0.6
  NOTE 1: Two test points.                                                                                                                                      
  ---------------------------- ------------ ------------------------------------ ------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------

Table 5.7BC.3: Transmitter power test requirements for TPC\_cmd=1

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Sub-test | Power    | Nominal  | Rounded  | Tra      | Allowed  |
| in table | step     | Power    | Power    | nsmitter | Tra      |
| C.10.1.4 |          | step     | step     | power    | nsmitter |
|          |          | size, ∆P | size, ∆P | step     | power    |
|          |          | \[dB\]   | \[dB\]   | T        | step     |
|          |          |          |          | olerance | range    |
|          |          |          |          | \[dB\]   | \[dB\]   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 3        | 1        | 6.14     | 6        | +/- 2.3  | 3.7 to   |
|          |          |          |          |          | 8.44     |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 2        | -1.38    | -1       | +/- 0.6  | -1.98 to |
|          |          |          |          |          | -0.4     |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 3^3^     | No       | No       | NA       | No       |
|          |          | requ     | requ     |          | requ     |
|          |          | irements | irements |          | irements |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 4        | -4.76    | -5       | +/- 2.3  | -7.3 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | -2.46    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 5^1^     | 1        | 1        | +/- 0.6  | 0.4 to   |
|          |          |          |          |          | 1.6      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 6        | 4.76     | 5        | +/- 2.3  | 2.46 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | 7.3      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 7^3^     | No       | No       | NA       | No       |
|          |          | Requ     | requ     |          | requ     |
|          |          | irements | irements |          | irements |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 8        | 1.38     | 1        | +/- 0.6  | 0.40 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | 1.98     |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 9        | -6.14    | -6       | +/- 2.3  | -8.44 to |
|          |          |          |          |          | -3.7     |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 10^2^    | 1        | 1        | +/- 0.6  | 0.4 to   |
|          |          |          |          |          | 1.6      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 11       | 4.76     | 5        | +/- 2.3  | 2.46 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | 7.3      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 12       | -4.76    | -5       | +/- 2.3  | -7.3 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | -2.46    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 13^2^    | 1        | 1        | +/- 0.6  | 0.4 to   |
|          |          |          |          |          | 1.6      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Three    |          |          |          |          |          |
| test     |          |          |          |          |          |
| points.  |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Two test |          |          |          |          |          |
| points.  |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 3:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| In these |          |          |          |          |          |
| test     |          |          |          |          |          |
| points   |          |          |          |          |          |
| rel-6 UE |          |          |          |          |          |
| performs |          |          |          |          |          |
| ad       |          |          |          |          |          |
| ditional |          |          |          |          |          |
| power    |          |          |          |          |          |
| scaling  |          |          |          |          |          |
| due to   |          |          |          |          |          |
| changes  |          |          |          |          |          |
| in       |          |          |          |          |          |
| allowed  |          |          |          |          |          |
| MPR, and |          |          |          |          |          |
| t        |          |          |          |          |          |
| herefore |          |          |          |          |          |
| there    |          |          |          |          |          |
| are no   |          |          |          |          |          |
| requ     |          |          |          |          |          |
| irements |          |          |          |          |          |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |
| pecified |          |          |          |          |          |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |
| tra      |          |          |          |          |          |
| nsmitter |          |          |          |          |          |
| power    |          |          |          |          |          |
| steps.   |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

Table 5.7BC.4: Exceptions for Transmitter power test requirements for
TPC\_cmd=1

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Sub-test | Power    | Nominal  | Rounded  | Tra      | Allowed  |
| in table | step     | Power    | Power    | nsmitter | Tra      |
| C.10.1.4 |          | step     | step     | power    | nsmitter |
|          |          | size, ∆P | size, ∆P | step     | power    |
|          |          | \[dB\]   | \[dB\]   | T        | step     |
|          |          |          |          | olerance | range    |
|          |          |          |          | \[dB\]   | \[dB\]   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 3        | 5^1^     | 1        | 1        | +/- 1.6  | -0.6 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | 2.6      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 10^2^    | 1        | 1        | +/- 1.6  | -0.6 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | 2.6      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 13^2^    | 1        | 1        | +/- 1.6  | -0.6 to  |
|          |          |          |          |          | 2.6      |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Three    |          |          |          |          |          |
| test     |          |          |          |          |          |
| points.  |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Two test |          |          |          |          |          |
| points.  |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.8 Occupied Bandwidth (OBW)
----------------------------

### 5.8.1 Definition and applicability

Occupied bandwidth is a measure of the bandwidth containing 99 % of the
total integrated power of the transmitted spectrum, centred on the
assigned channel frequency.

The requirements and this test apply to all types of UTRA for the FDD
UE.

### 5.8.2 Minimum Requirements

The occupied channel bandwidth shall be less than 5 MHz based on a chip
rate of 3,84 Mcps.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.6.1.

### 5.8.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE occupied channel bandwidth is less than 5 MHz
based on a chip rate of 3,84 Mcps.

Excess occupied channel bandwidth increases the interference to other
channels or to other systems.

### 5.8.4 Method of test

##### 5.8.4.1 Initial conditions {#initial-conditions-10 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.1.

2\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure in
TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.2.

3\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 5.8.4.2 Procedure {#procedure-10 .H6}

1\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE until
the UE output power shall be maximum level.

2\) Measure the power spectrum distribution within two times or more
range over the requirement for Occupied Bandwidth specification centring
on the current carrier frequency with 30 kHz or less RBW. The
characteristic of the filter shall be approximately Gaussian (typical
spectrum analyzer filter).

3\) Calculate the total power within the range of all frequencies
measured in \'2)\' and save this value as \"Total Power\".

4\) Sum up the power upward from the lower boundary of the measured
frequency range in \'2)\' and seek the limit frequency point by which
this sum becomes 0,5 % of \"Total Power\" and save this point as \"Lower
Frequency\".

5\) Sum up the power downward from the upper boundary of the measured
frequency range in \'2)\' and seek the limit frequency point by which
this sum becomes 0,5 % of \"Total Power\" and save this point as \"Upper
Frequency\".

6\) Calculate the difference (\"Upper Frequency\" - \"Lower Frequency\"
= \"Occupied Bandwidth\") between two limit frequencies obtained in
\'4)\' and \'5)\'.

### 5.8.5 Test Requirements

The measured Occupied Bandwidth, derived in step 6), shall not exceed 5
MHz.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.8A Occupied Bandwidth (OBW) for DC-HSUPA
------------------------------------------

### 5.8A.1 Definition and applicability

In the case dual adjacent carriers are assigned in the uplink, occupied
bandwidth is a measure of the bandwidth containing 99 % of the total
integrated power of the transmitted spectrum, centred at the centre of
the assigned channel frequencies.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 9 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA and Dual Cell E-DCH.

### 5.8A.2 Minimum Requirements

The occupied channel bandwidth shall be less than 10 MHz on a chip rate
of 3.84 Mcps.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.6.1A.

### 5.8A.3 Test purpose

To verify that the DC-HSUPA UE occupied channel bandwidth is less than
10 MHz based on a chip rate of 3,84 Mcps.

Excess occupied channel bandwidth increases the interference to other
channels or to other systems.

### 5.8A.4 Method of test

#### 5.8A.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.41.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and parameters are specified in
Annex C.2.6 and C.11A. The DL Reference Measurement Channel (FRC H-SET
3A, QPSK) is specified in C.8.1.1.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.14 with the
exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP message given in Tables 5.2BA.2,
5.2BA.3, 5.2BA.4. These exceptions allow the beta values to be set
according to table C.11A.1. and each UL physical channel to be at
constant power during the measurement. RF parameters are set up
according to table E.5A.1A. Settings for the serving cell are defined in
table 5.8A.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping back HSDPA to E-DCH
according to procedure 7.3.14.3 in TS 34.108 \[3\] and start the
loopback test

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.8A: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of\
Occupied Bandwidth for with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.8A.4.1                 |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

#### 5.8A.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set the Absolute Grant according to Table C.11A.1.1.

2\) The SS starts transmitting HSDPA and the UE loops the received data
back on E-DCH.

3\) Generate suitable TPC commands to each individual carrier from the
SS to set the total power in each of the assigned carriers to be equal
to each other within ± 1.7 dB and the total output power of the UE to be
at least 7.5dB lower than the maximum output power. Wait 150ms.

4\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to both carriers
to the UE and wait 150ms.

5\) Measure the power spectrum distribution within two times or more
range over the requirement for Occupied Bandwidth specification centring
between the two carrier frequencies with 30 kHz or less RBW. The
characteristic of the filter shall be approximately Gaussian (typical
spectrum analyzer filter).

6\) Calculate the total power of the two carriers within the range of
all frequencies measured in \'2)\' and save this value as \"Total
Power\".

7\) Sum up the power upward from the lower boundary of the measured
frequency range in \'2)\' and seek the limit frequency point by which
this sum becomes 0,5 % of \"Total Power\" of the two carriers and save
this point as \"Lower Frequency\".

8\) Sum up the power downward from the upper boundary of the measured
frequency range in \'2)\' and seek the limit frequency point by which
this sum becomes 0,5 % of \"Total Power\" and save this point as \"Upper
Frequency\".

9\) Calculate the difference (\"Upper Frequency\" − \"Lower Frequency\"
= \"Occupied Bandwidth\") between two limit frequencies obtained in
\'4)\' and \'5)\'.

### 5.8A.5 Test Requirements

The measured Occupied Bandwidth, derived in step 6), shall not exceed 10
MHz.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.8B Occupied Bandwidth (OBW) for OLTD
--------------------------------------

### 5.8B.1 Definition and applicability

Occupied bandwidth is a measure of the bandwidth containing 99 % of the
total integrated power of the transmitted spectrum, centred at the
centre of the assigned channel frequency. For UE with two active
transmit antenna connectors in UL OLTD activation state 1, occupied
bandwidth requirement is defined per UE.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL OLTD and HSDPA.

### 5.8B.2 Minimum Requirements

The occupied bandwidth of the UL OLTD UE is determined by the occupied
bandwidth (defined in 5.8.1) measured at each active antenna port of the
UE. The upper boundary of the UE occupied bandwidth is the highest
boundary of the two measured occupied bandwidths. The lower boundary of
the UE occupied bandwidth is the lowest boundary of the two measured
occupied bandwidths. The occupied channel bandwidth for UE shall be less
than 5 MHz based on a chip rate of 3.84 Mcps.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.6.1B.

### 5.8B.3 Test purpose

To verify that the occupied channel bandwidth is less than 5 MHz based
on a chip rate of 3,84 Mcps.

Excess occupied channel bandwidth increases the interference to other
channels or to other systems.

### 5.8B.4 Method of test

#### 5.8B.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1) are specified in clauses C.10.2 and C.8.1.1 with
the beta values set according to table C.10.2.4.

3\) An HSDPA call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.18.
RF parameters are set up according to table E.5.1 and table E.5.10.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

#### 5.8B.4.2 Procedure

1\) Start transmitting HSDPA Data.

2\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE and
wait 150ms.

3\) Measure the power spectrum distribution within two times or more
range over the requirement for Occupied Bandwidth specification centring
on the current carrier frequency with 30 kHz or less RBW for first
antenna. The characteristic of the filter shall be approximately
Gaussian (typical spectrum analyzer filter).

4\) Calculate the total power within the range of all frequencies
measured in step 3 and save this value as \"Total Power\".

5\) Sum up the power upward from the lower boundary of the measured
frequency range in step 3 and seek the limit frequency point by which
this sum becomes 0,5 % of \"Total Power\" and save this point as \"Lower
Frequency\".

6\) Sum up the power downward from the upper boundary of the measured
frequency range in step 3 and seek the limit frequency point by which
this sum becomes 0,5 % of \"Total Power\" and save this point as \"Upper
Frequency\".

7\) Repeat steps 3 to 6 for second antenna

8\) Calculate "Lower Frequency per UE" as the lowest of the two "Lower
Frequency" measurements per antenna

9\) Calculate "Upper Frequency per UE" as the highest of the two "Higher
Frequency" measurements per antenna

10\) Calculate the difference (\"Upper Frequency per UE\" - \"Lower
Frequency per UE\" = \"Occupied Bandwidth\") between two limit
frequencies obtained in \'4)\' and \'5)\'.

### 5.8B.5 Test Requirements

The measured Occupied Bandwidth, derived in step 10, shall not exceed 5
MHz.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.8C Occupied Bandwidth (OBW) for UL CLTD Activation state 1
------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.8C.1 Definition and applicability

Occupied bandwidth is a measure of the bandwidth containing 99 % of the
total integrated power of the transmitted spectrum, centred at the
centre of the assigned channel frequency. For UE with two active
transmit antenna connectors in UL CLTD activation state 1, occupied
bandwidth requirement is defined per UE.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL CLTD and HSDPA.

### 5.8C.2 Minimum Requirements

The occupied bandwidth of the UL CLTD UE is determined by the occupied
bandwidth (defined in 5.8.1) measured at each active antenna port of the
UE. The upper boundary of the UE occupied bandwidth is the highest
boundary of the two measured occupied bandwidths. The lower boundary of
the UE occupied bandwidth is the lowest boundary of the two measured
occupied bandwidths. The occupied channel bandwidth for UE shall be less
than 5 MHz based on a chip rate of 3.84 Mcps.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.6.1C.

### 5.8C.3 Test purpose

To verify that the occupied channel bandwidth is less than 5 MHz based
on a chip rate of 3,84 Mcps.

Excess occupied channel bandwidth increases the interference to other
channels or to other systems.

### 5.8C.4 Method of test

#### 5.8C.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1) are specified in clauses C.10.2 and C.8.1.1 with
the beta values set according to table C.10.2.4.

3\) An HSDPA call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.17.
RF parameters are set up according to table E.5.1 and table E.5.10.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

#### 5.8C.4.2 Procedure

1\) Start transmitting HSDPA Data.

2\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE and
wait 150ms.

3\) Measure the power spectrum distribution within two times or more
range over the requirement for Occupied Bandwidth specification centring
on the current carrier frequency with 30 kHz or less RBW for first
antenna. The characteristic of the filter shall be approximately
Gaussian (typical spectrum analyzer filter).

4\) Calculate the total power within the range of all frequencies
measured in step 3 and save this value as \"Total Power\".

5\) Sum up the power upward from the lower boundary of the measured
frequency range in step 3 and seek the limit frequency point by which
this sum becomes 0,5 % of \"Total Power\" and save this point as \"Lower
Frequency\".

6\) Sum up the power downward from the upper boundary of the measured
frequency range in step 3 and seek the limit frequency point by which
this sum becomes 0,5 % of \"Total Power\" and save this point as \"Upper
Frequency\".

7\) Repeat steps 3 to 6 for second antenna

8\) Calculate "Lower Frequency per UE" as the lowest of the two "Lower
Frequency" measurements per antenna

9\) Calculate "Upper Frequency per UE" as the highest of the two "Higher
Frequency" measurements per antenna

10\) Calculate the difference (\"Upper Frequency per UE\" - \"Lower
Frequency per UE\" = \"Occupied Bandwidth\") between two limit
frequencies obtained in \'4)\' and \'5)\'.

### 5.8C.5 Test Requirements

The measured Occupied Bandwidth, derived in step 10, shall not exceed 5
MHz.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.9 Spectrum emission mask
--------------------------

### 5.9.1 Definition and applicability

The spectrum emission mask of the UE applies to frequencies, which are
between 2.5 MHz and 12.5 MHz away from the UE centre carrier frequency.
The out of channel emission is specified relative to the RRC filtered
mean power of the UE carrier.

The requirements and this test apply to all types of UTRA for the FDD
UE.

### 5.9.2 Minimum Requirements

The power of any UE emission shall not exceed the levels specified in
Table 5.9.1. The absolute requirement is based on a -50 dBm/3.84 MHz
minimum power threshold for the UE. This limit is expressed for the
narrower measurement bandwidths as -55.8 dBm/1 MHz and -71.1 dBm/30 kHz.
The requirements are applicable for all values of β~c~, β~d~ as
specified in \[5\].

Table 5.9.1: Spectrum Emission Mask Requirement

+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| Δf in MHz\       | Minimum          | Measurement      |          |
| (Note 1)         | requirement      | bandwidth        |          |
|                  | (note 2)         |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
|                  | Relative         | Absolute         |          |
|                  | requirement      | requirement      |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 2.5 - 3.5        | ![](             | -71.1 dBm        | 30 kHz\  |
|                  | media/image31.wm |                  | (note 3) |
|                  | f){width="2.0in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5in"}  |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 3.5 - 7.5        | ![]              | -55.8 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image32.w |                  | (note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="1.999 |                  |          |
|                  | 3055555555554in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5263   |                  |          |
|                  | 888888888889in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 7.5 - 8.5        | ![]              | -55.8 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image33.w |                  | (note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="2.019 |                  |          |
|                  | 4444444444444in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5104   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666666in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 8.5 - 12.5 MHz   | -49 dBc          | -55.8 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  |                  |                  | (note 4) |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| NOTE 1: ∆f is    |                  |                  |          |
| the separation   |                  |                  |          |
| between the      |                  |                  |          |
| carrier          |                  |                  |          |
| frequency and    |                  |                  |          |
| the centre of    |                  |                  |          |
| the measurement  |                  |                  |          |
| bandwidth.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 2: The      |                  |                  |          |
| minimum          |                  |                  |          |
| requirement is   |                  |                  |          |
| calculated from  |                  |                  |          |
| the relative     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement or   |                  |                  |          |
| the absolute     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement,     |                  |                  |          |
| whichever is the |                  |                  |          |
| higher power.    |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 3: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 30 kHz filter is |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 2.515 MHz and    |                  |                  |          |
| 3.485 MHz.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 4: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 1 MHz filter is  |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 4 MHz and        |                  |                  |          |
| 12 MHz.          |                  |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+

For operation in band II, IV, V, X, XII, XIII,XIV, XXV and XXVI the
minimum requirement is calculated from the minimum requirement in table
5.9.1 or the applicable additional requirement in Tables  5.9.1A, 5.9.1B
or 5.9.1C, whichever is the tighter requirement.

Table 5.9.1A: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands II, IV, X
and XXV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band II, IV, X   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                                  30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   4.0MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.0 MHz                                       -13 dBm                                  1 MHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9.1B: Additional spectrum emission limits for Band V and XXVI

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band V   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                        

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                          30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   3.55MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                          100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                         
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9.1C: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands XII, XIII
and XIV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band XII, XIII, XIV   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                     

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 2.6 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 2.585MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       30 kHz

  2.6 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.45 MHz                                                                                  2.65MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                      
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------

NOTE: As a general rule, the resolution bandwidth of the measuring
equipment should be equal to the measurement bandwidth specified in
tables 5.9.1, 5.9.1A, 5.9.1B and 5.9.1C. However, to improve measurement
accuracy, sensitivity and efficiency, the resolution bandwidth may be
smaller than the measurement bandwidth. When the resolution bandwidth is
smaller than the measurement bandwidth, the result should be integrated
over the measurement bandwidth in order to obtain the equivalent noise
bandwidth of the measurement bandwidth.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\], clause
6.6.2.1.1.

### 5.9.3 Test purpose

To verify that the power of UE emission does not exceed the prescribed
limits shown in table 5.9.1.

Excess emission increases the interference to other channels or to other
systems.

### 5.9.4 Method of test

#### 5.9.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.1.

2\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure in
TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.2.

3\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

#### 5.9.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE until
the UE output power shall be maximum level.

2\) Measure the power of the transmitted signal with a measurement
filter of bandwidths according to table 5.9.2 and 5.9.2A, 5.9.2B, 5.9.2C
if applicable. For measurements using 1 MHz or 100KHz measurement
bandwidths the result may be calculated by integrating multiple 50 kHz
or narrower filter measurements. The characteristic of the filter shall
be approximately Gaussian (typical spectrum analyzer filter). The centre
frequency of the filter shall be stepped in contiguous steps according
to table 5.9.2. The measured power shall be recorded for each step.

3\) Measure the RRC filtered mean power centred on the assigned channel
frequency.

4\) Calculate the ratio of the power 2) with respect to 3) in dBc.

### 5.9.5 Test requirements

The result of clause 5.9.4.2 step 4) shall fulfil the requirements of
table 5.9.2.

For operation in band II, IV, V, X, XII, XIII, XIV, XXV and XXVI both
minimum requirement in table 5.9.2 and the applicable additional
requirement in Tables  5.9.2A, 5.9.2B, or 5.9.2C need to be satisfied.

Table 5.9.2: Spectrum Emission Mask Requirement

+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| Δf in MHz\       | Minimum          | Measurement      |          |
| (note 1)         | requirement      | bandwidth        |          |
|                  | (note 2)         |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
|                  | Relative         | Absolute         |          |
|                  | requirement      | requirement      |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 2.5 - 3.5        | ![]              | -69.6 dBm        | 30 kHz\  |
|                  | (media/image34.w |                  | (note 3) |
|                  | mf){width="1.915 |                  |          |
|                  | 9722222222222in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.4479   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666667in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 3.5 - 7.5        | ![]              | -54.3 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image35.w |                  | (note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="1.843 |                  |          |
|                  | 0555555555554in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5104   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666666in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 7.5 - 8.5        | ![]              | -54.3 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image36.w |                  | (note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="1.915 |                  |          |
|                  | 9722222222222in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.4479   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666667in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 8.5 - 12.5 MHz   | -47.5 dBc        | -54.3 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  |                  |                  | (note 4) |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| NOTE 1: ∆f is    |                  |                  |          |
| the separation   |                  |                  |          |
| between the      |                  |                  |          |
| carrier          |                  |                  |          |
| frequency and    |                  |                  |          |
| the centre of    |                  |                  |          |
| the measurement  |                  |                  |          |
| bandwidth.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 2: The      |                  |                  |          |
| minimum          |                  |                  |          |
| requirement is   |                  |                  |          |
| calculated from  |                  |                  |          |
| the relative     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement or   |                  |                  |          |
| the absolute     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement,     |                  |                  |          |
| whichever is the |                  |                  |          |
| higher power.    |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 3: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 30 kHz filter is |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 2.515 MHz and    |                  |                  |          |
| 3.485 MHz.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 4: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 1 MHz filter is  |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 4 MHz and        |                  |                  |          |
| 12 MHz.          |                  |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+

Table 5.9.2A: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands II, IV, X,
XXV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band II, IV, X   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                                  30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   4.0MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.0 MHz                                       -13 dBm                                  1 MHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9.2B: Additional spectrum emission limits for Band V and XXVI

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band V   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                        

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                          30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   3.55MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                          100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                         
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9.2C: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands XII, XIII
and XIV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band XII, XIII, XIV   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                     

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 2.6 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 2.585MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       30 kHz

  2.6 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.45 MHz                                                                                  2.65MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                      
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.9A Spectrum Emission Mask with HS-DPCCH
-----------------------------------------

### 5.9A.1 Definition and applicability

The spectrum emission mask of the UE applies to frequencies, which are
between 2.5 MHz and 12.5 MHz away from the UE centre carrier frequency.
The out of channel emission is specified relative to the RRC filtered
mean power of the UE carrier.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 5 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA.

### 5.9A.2 Minimum Requirements

The power of any UE emission shall not exceed the levels specified in
Table 5.9A.1. The absolute requirement is based on a -50 dBm/3.84 MHz
minimum power threshold for the UE. This limit is expressed for the
narrower measurement bandwidths as -55.8 dBm/1 MHz and -71.1 dBm/30 kHz.
The requirements are applicable for all values of β~c~, β~d~, β~hs~ as
specified in \[5\].

Table 5.9A.1: Spectrum Emission Mask Requirement

+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| Δf in MHz\       | Minimum          | Measurement      |          |
| (note 1)         | requirement      | bandwidth        |          |
|                  | (note 2)         |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
|                  | Relative         | Absolute         |          |
|                  | requirement      | requirement      |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 2.5 - 3.5        | ![](             | -71.1 dBm        | 30 kHz\  |
|                  | media/image31.wm |                  | (note 3) |
|                  | f){width="2.0in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5in"}  |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 3.5 - 7.5        | ![]              | -55.8 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image32.w |                  | (note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="1.999 |                  |          |
|                  | 3055555555554in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5263   |                  |          |
|                  | 888888888889in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 7.5 - 8.5        | ![]              | -55.8 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image33.w |                  | (note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="2.019 |                  |          |
|                  | 4444444444444in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5104   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666666in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 8.5 - 12.5 MHz   | -49 dBc          | -55.8 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  |                  |                  | (note 4) |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| NOTE 1: ∆f is    |                  |                  |          |
| the separation   |                  |                  |          |
| between the      |                  |                  |          |
| carrier          |                  |                  |          |
| frequency and    |                  |                  |          |
| the centre of    |                  |                  |          |
| the measurement  |                  |                  |          |
| bandwidth.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 2: The      |                  |                  |          |
| minimum          |                  |                  |          |
| requirement is   |                  |                  |          |
| calculated from  |                  |                  |          |
| the relative     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement or   |                  |                  |          |
| the absolute     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement,     |                  |                  |          |
| whichever is the |                  |                  |          |
| higher power.    |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 3: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 30 kHz filter is |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 2.515 MHz and    |                  |                  |          |
| 3.485 MHz.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 4: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 1 MHz filter is  |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 4 MHz and        |                  |                  |          |
| 12 MHz.          |                  |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+

For operation in band II, IV, V, X, XII, XIII, XIV, XXV and XXVI the
minimum requirement is calculated from the minimum requirement in table
5.9A.1 or the applicable additional requirement in Tables  5.9A.1A,
5.9A.1B or 5.9A.1C, whichever is the tighter requirement.

Table 5.9A.1A: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands II, IV, X
and XXV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band II, IV, X   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                                  30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   4.0MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.0 MHz                                       -13 dBm                                  1 MHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9A.1B: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands V and XXVI

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band V   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                        

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                          30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   3.55MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                          100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                         
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9A.1C: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands XII, XIII
and XIV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band XII, XIII, XIV   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                     

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 2.6 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 2.585MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       30 kHz

  2.6 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.45 MHz                                                                                  2.65MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                      
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------

NOTE: As a general rule, the resolution bandwidth of the measuring
equipment should be equal to the measurement bandwidth specified in
tables 5.9A.1, 5.9A.1A, 5.9A.1B and 5.9A.1C. However, to improve
measurement accuracy, sensitivity and efficiency, the resolution
bandwidth may be smaller than the measurement bandwidth. When the
resolution bandwidth is smaller than the measurement bandwidth, the
result should be integrated over the measurement bandwidth in order to
obtain the equivalent noise bandwidth of the measurement bandwidth.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\], clause
6.6.2.1.1.

### 5.9A.3 Test purpose

To verify that the power of UE emission does not exceed the prescribed
limits shown in table 5.9A.1. even in the presence of the HS-DPCCH. (see
note). This is applicable for all values
of![](media/image12.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.25in"},![](media/image13.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in"
height="0.25in"}and![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.25in"
height="0.25in"} as specified in \[5\]. The maximum output power with
HS-DPCCH is specified in table 5.2A.1.

Excess emission increases the interference to other channels or to other
systems.

NOTE: For a static signal, the measurement with a 1MHz filter can be
replaced by a narrower filter and integration over the bandwidth. (Note
6 in table 5.9A.1) For a non static signal the above described
replacement gives different results, depending on the type of dynamic in
the signal and depending on the bandwidth of the filter. Hence the
signal is tested only when static.

### 5.9A.4 Method of test

#### 5.9A.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.1.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK version) are specified in Annex C.10.1 and
C.8.1.1.

3\) An HSDPA call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.6.
RF parameters are set up according to table E.5.1 and table E.5.10.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.9A.2.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

Table 5.9A.2: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of\
Spectrum Emission Mask with HS-DPCCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.9A.4.1                 |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

#### 5.9A.4.2 Procedure

1\) Send TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to set the beta
values according to table C.10.1.4 and the DPCH frame offset according
the HS-DPCCH slot offset required for measurements.

> 2\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE.
>
> 3\) Start transmitting HSDPA Data.
>
> 4\) When UE has reached the maximum power, measure the power of the
> transmitted signal with a measurement filter of bandwidths according
> to table 5.9A.3 and 5.9A.3A, 5.9A.3B, 5.9A.3C if applicable. For
> measurements using 1 MHz or 100KHz measurement bandwidths the result
> may be calculated by integrating multiple 50 kHz or narrower
> filter(≥3kHz) measurements. The characteristic of the filter shall be
> approximately Gaussian (typical spectrum analyzer filter). The centre
> frequency of the filter shall be stepped in contiguous steps according
> to table 5.9A.3 and 5.9A.3A, 5.9A.3B, 5.9A.3C if applicable. The
> measured power shall be recorded for each step. The measurement
> duration with the filter on one frequency shall last at least the
> filter settling time and the measurement period shall be inside the
> HS-DPCCH on-period.
>
> 5\) Measure the RRC filtered mean power centred on the assigned
> channel frequency.
>
> 6\) Calculate the ratio of the power 4) with respect to 5) in dBc.

7\) Repeat steps 1-6 for all the different combinations of beta values
as given in table C.10.1.4.

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9 of TS 34.108 \[3\], except the
TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message which is defined in Annex I.

### 5.9A.5 Test requirements

The result of clause 5.9A.4.2 step 6) shall fulfil the requirements of
table 5.9A.3.

For operation in band II, IV, V, X, XII, XIII, XIV, XXV and XXVI both
minimum requirement in table 5.9A.3 and the applicable additional
requirement in Tables  5.9A.3A, 5.9A.3B, or 5.9A.3C need to be
satisfied.

Table 5.9A.3: Spectrum Emission Mask Requirement

+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| Δf in MHz\       | Minimum          | Measurement      |          |
| (note 1)         | requirement      | bandwidth        |          |
|                  | (note 2)         |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
|                  | Relative         | Absolute         |          |
|                  | requirement      | requirement      |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 2.5 - 3.5        | ![]              | -69.6 dBm        | 30 kHz\  |
|                  | (media/image34.w |                  | (note 3) |
|                  | mf){width="1.915 |                  |          |
|                  | 9722222222222in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.4479   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666667in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 3.5 - 7.5        | ![]              | -54.3 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image35.w |                  | (note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="1.843 |                  |          |
|                  | 0555555555554in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5104   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666666in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 7.5 - 8.5        | ![]              | -54.3 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image36.w |                  | (note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="1.915 |                  |          |
|                  | 9722222222222in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.4479   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666667in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 8.5 - 12.5 MHz   | -47.5 dBc        | -54.3 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  |                  |                  | (note 4) |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| NOTE 1: ∆f is    |                  |                  |          |
| the separation   |                  |                  |          |
| between the      |                  |                  |          |
| carrier          |                  |                  |          |
| frequency and    |                  |                  |          |
| the centre of    |                  |                  |          |
| the measurement  |                  |                  |          |
| bandwidth.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 2: The      |                  |                  |          |
| minimum          |                  |                  |          |
| requirement is   |                  |                  |          |
| calculated from  |                  |                  |          |
| the relative     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement or   |                  |                  |          |
| the absolute     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement,     |                  |                  |          |
| whichever is the |                  |                  |          |
| higher power.    |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 3: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 30 kHz filter is |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 2.515 MHz and    |                  |                  |          |
| 3.485 MHz.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 4: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 1 MHz filter is  |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 4 MHz and        |                  |                  |          |
| 12 MHz.          |                  |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+

Table 5.9A.3A: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands II, IV, X
and XXV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band II, IV, X   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                                  30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   4.0MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.0 MHz                                       -13 dBm                                  1 MHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9A.3B: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands V and XXVI

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band V   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                        

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                          30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   3.55MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                          100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                         
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9A.3C: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands XII, XIII
and XIV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band XII, XIII, XIV   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                     

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 2.6 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 2.585MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       30 kHz

  2.6 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.45 MHz                                                                                  2.65MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                      
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.9AA Spectrum Emission Mask with HS-DPCCH for UL OLTD 
------------------------------------------------------

### 5.9AA.1 Definition and applicability

The spectrum emission mask of the UE applies to frequencies, which are
between 2.5 MHz and 12.5 MHz away from the UE centre carrier frequency.
The out of channel emission is specified relative to the RRC filtered
mean power of the UE carrier.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL OLTD and HSDPA.

### 5.9AA.2 Minimum Requirements

The power of any UE emission shall not exceed the levels specified in
Table 5.9AA.1. The absolute requirement is based on a -50 dBm/3.84 MHz
minimum power threshold for the UE. This limit is expressed for the
narrower measurement bandwidths as -55.8 dBm/1 MHz and -71.1 dBm/30 kHz.
The requirements are applicable for all values of β~c~, β~d~, β~hs~ as
specified in \[5\].

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL OLTD , the
spectrum emission mask requirements apply at each transmit antenna
connector.

Table 5.9AA.1: Spectrum Emission Mask Requirement

+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| Δf in MHz\       | Minimum          | Measurement      |          |
| (note 1)         | requirement      | bandwidth        |          |
|                  | (note 2)         |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
|                  | Relative         | Absolute         |          |
|                  | requirement      | requirement      |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 2.5 - 3.5        | ![](             | -71.1 dBm        | 30 kHz\  |
|                  | media/image31.wm |                  | (note 3) |
|                  | f){width="2.0in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5in"}  |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 3.5 - 7.5        | ![]              | -55.8 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image32.w |                  | (note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="1.999 |                  |          |
|                  | 3055555555554in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5263   |                  |          |
|                  | 888888888889in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 7.5 - 8.5        | ![]              | -55.8 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image33.w |                  | (note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="2.019 |                  |          |
|                  | 4444444444444in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5104   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666666in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 8.5 - 12.5 MHz   | -49 dBc          | -55.8 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  |                  |                  | (note 4) |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| NOTE 1: ∆f is    |                  |                  |          |
| the separation   |                  |                  |          |
| between the      |                  |                  |          |
| carrier          |                  |                  |          |
| frequency and    |                  |                  |          |
| the centre of    |                  |                  |          |
| the measurement  |                  |                  |          |
| bandwidth.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 2: The      |                  |                  |          |
| minimum          |                  |                  |          |
| requirement is   |                  |                  |          |
| calculated from  |                  |                  |          |
| the relative     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement or   |                  |                  |          |
| the absolute     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement,     |                  |                  |          |
| whichever is the |                  |                  |          |
| higher power.    |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 3: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 30 kHz filter is |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 2.515 MHz and    |                  |                  |          |
| 3.485 MHz.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 4: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 1 MHz filter is  |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 4 MHz and        |                  |                  |          |
| 12 MHz.          |                  |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+

For operation in band II, IV, V, X, XII, XIII, XIV, XXV and XXVI the
minimum requirement is calculated from the minimum requirement in table
5.9AA.1 or the applicable additional requirement in Tables 5.9AA.1A,
5.9AA.1B or 5.9AA.1C, whichever is the tighter requirement.

Table 5.9AA.1A: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands II, IV, X
and XXV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band II, IV, X   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                                  30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   4.0MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.0 MHz                                       -13 dBm                                  1 MHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9AA.1B: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands V and XXVI

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band V   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                        

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                          30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   3.55MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                          100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                         
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9AA.1C: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands XII, XIII
and XIV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band XII, XIII, XIV   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                     

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 2.6 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 2.585MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       30 kHz

  2.6 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.45 MHz                                                                                  2.65MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                      
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------

NOTE: As a general rule, the resolution bandwidth of the measuring
equipment should be equal to the measurement bandwidth specified in
tables 5.9AA.1, 5.9AA.1A, 5.9AA.1B and 5.9AA.1C. However, to improve
measurement accuracy, sensitivity and efficiency, the resolution
bandwidth may be smaller than the measurement bandwidth. When the
resolution bandwidth is smaller than the measurement bandwidth, the
result should be integrated over the measurement bandwidth in order to
obtain the equivalent noise bandwidth of the measurement bandwidth.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\], clause
6.6.2.1B.

### 5.9AA.3 Test purpose

To verify that the power of UE emission for UL OLTD does not exceed the
prescribed limits shown in table 5.9AA.1. even in the presence of the
HS-DPCCH. (see note). This is applicable for all values
of![](media/image12.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.25in"},![](media/image13.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in"
height="0.25in"}and![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.25in"
height="0.25in"} as specified in \[5\]. The maximum output power with
HS-DPCCH is specified in table 5.2A.1.

Excess emission increases the interference to other channels or to other
systems.

NOTE: For a static signal, the measurement with a 1MHz filter can be
replaced by a narrower filter and integration over the bandwidth. (Note
6 in table 5.9AA.1) For a non static signal the above described
replacement gives different results, depending on the type of dynamic in
the signal and depending on the bandwidth of the filter. Hence the
signal is tested only when static.

### 5.9AA.4 Method of test

#### 5.9AA.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK version) are specified in Annex C.10.2 and
C.8.1.1.

3\) An HSDPA call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.18.
RF parameters are set up according to table E.5.1 and table E.5.10.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.9AA.2.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

Table 5.9AA.2: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of\
Spectrum Emission Mask with HS-DPCCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.9AA.4.1                |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

#### 5.9AA.4.2 Procedure

1\) Send TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to set the beta
values according to table C.10.2.4 and the DPCH frame offset according
the HS-DPCCH slot offset required for measurements.

> 2\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE.
>
> 3\) Start transmitting HSDPA Data.
>
> 4\) When UE has reached the maximum power, measure the power of the
> transmitted signal with a measurement filter of bandwidths according
> to table 5.9AA.3 and 5.9AA.3A, 5.9AA.3B, 5.9AA.3C if applicable. For
> measurements using 1 MHz or 100KHz measurement bandwidths the result
> may be calculated by integrating multiple 50 kHz or narrower
> filter(≥3kHz) measurements. The characteristic of the filter shall be
> approximately Gaussian (typical spectrum analyzer filter). The centre
> frequency of the filter shall be stepped in contiguous steps according
> to table 5.9AA.3 and 5.9AA.3A, 5.9AA.3B, 5.9AA.3C if applicable. The
> measured power shall be recorded for each step. The measurement
> duration with the filter on one frequency shall last at least the
> filter settling time and the measurement period shall be inside the
> HS-DPCCH on-period.
>
> 5\) Measure the RRC filtered mean power centred on the assigned
> channel frequency.
>
> 6\) Calculate the ratio of the power 4) with respect to 5) in dBc.

7\) Repeat steps 1-6 for all the different combinations of beta values
as given in table C.10.2.4.

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9 of TS 34.108 \[3\], except the
TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message which is defined in Annex I.

### 5.9AA.5 Test requirements

The result of clause 5.9AA.4.2 step 6) shall fulfil the requirements of
table 5.9AA.3.

For operation in band II, IV, V, X, XII, XIII, XIV, XXV and XXVI both
minimum requirement in table 5.9AA.3 and the applicable additional
requirement in Tables 5.9AA.3A, 5.9AA.3B, or 5.9AA.3C need to be
satisfied.

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL OLTD , the
spectrum emission mask requirements apply at each transmit antenna
connector.

Table 5.9AA.3: Spectrum Emission Mask Requirement

+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| Δf in MHz\       | Minimum          | Measurement      |          |
| (note 1)         | requirement      | bandwidth        |          |
|                  | (note 2)         |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
|                  | Relative         | Absolute         |          |
|                  | requirement      | requirement      |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 2.5 - 3.5        | ![]              | -69.6 dBm        | 30 kHz\  |
|                  | (media/image34.w |                  | (note 3) |
|                  | mf){width="1.915 |                  |          |
|                  | 9722222222222in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.4479   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666667in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 3.5 - 7.5        | ![]              | -54.3 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image35.w |                  | (note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="1.843 |                  |          |
|                  | 0555555555554in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5104   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666666in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 7.5 - 8.5        | ![]              | -54.3 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image36.w |                  | (note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="1.915 |                  |          |
|                  | 9722222222222in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.4479   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666667in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 8.5 - 12.5 MHz   | -47.5 dBc        | -54.3 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  |                  |                  | (note 4) |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| NOTE 1: ∆f is    |                  |                  |          |
| the separation   |                  |                  |          |
| between the      |                  |                  |          |
| carrier          |                  |                  |          |
| frequency and    |                  |                  |          |
| the centre of    |                  |                  |          |
| the measurement  |                  |                  |          |
| bandwidth.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 2: The      |                  |                  |          |
| minimum          |                  |                  |          |
| requirement is   |                  |                  |          |
| calculated from  |                  |                  |          |
| the relative     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement or   |                  |                  |          |
| the absolute     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement,     |                  |                  |          |
| whichever is the |                  |                  |          |
| higher power.    |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 3: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 30 kHz filter is |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 2.515 MHz and    |                  |                  |          |
| 3.485 MHz.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 4: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 1 MHz filter is  |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 4 MHz and        |                  |                  |          |
| 12 MHz.          |                  |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+

Table 5.9AA.3A: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands II, IV, X
and XXV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band II, IV, X   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                                  30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   4.0MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.0 MHz                                       -13 dBm                                  1 MHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9AA.3B: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands V and XXVI

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band V   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                        

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                          30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   3.55MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                          100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                         
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9AA.3C: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands XII, XIII
and XIV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band XII, XIII, XIV   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                     

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 2.6 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 2.585MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       30 kHz

  2.6 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.45 MHz                                                                                  2.65MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                      
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.9AB Spectrum Emission Mask with HS-DPCCH for UL CLTD activation state 1
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.9AB.1 Definition and applicability

The spectrum emission mask of the UE applies to frequencies, which are
between 2.5 MHz and 12.5 MHz away from the UE centre carrier frequency.
The out of channel emission is specified relative to the RRC filtered
mean power of the UE carrier.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL CLTD and HSDPA.

### 5.9AB.2 Minimum Requirements

The power of any UE emission shall not exceed the levels specified in
Table 5.9AB.1. The absolute requirement is based on a -50 dBm/3.84 MHz
minimum power threshold for the UE. This limit is expressed for the
narrower measurement bandwidths as -55.8 dBm/1 MHz and -71.1 dBm/30 kHz.
The requirements are applicable for all values of β~c~, β~d~, β~hs~ as
specified in \[5\].

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL CLTD activation
state 1, the spectrum emission mask requirements apply at each transmit
antenna connector.

Table 5.9AB.1: Spectrum Emission Mask Requirement

+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| Δf in MHz\       | Minimum          | Measurement      |          |
| (note 1)         | requirement      | bandwidth        |          |
|                  | (note 2)         |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
|                  | Relative         | Absolute         |          |
|                  | requirement      | requirement      |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 2.5 - 3.5        | ![](             | -71.1 dBm        | 30 kHz\  |
|                  | media/image31.wm |                  | (note 3) |
|                  | f){width="2.0in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5in"}  |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 3.5 - 7.5        | ![]              | -55.8 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image32.w |                  | (note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="1.999 |                  |          |
|                  | 3055555555554in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5263   |                  |          |
|                  | 888888888889in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 7.5 - 8.5        | ![]              | -55.8 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image33.w |                  | (note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="2.019 |                  |          |
|                  | 4444444444444in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5104   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666666in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 8.5 - 12.5 MHz   | -49 dBc          | -55.8 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  |                  |                  | (note 4) |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| NOTE 1: ∆f is    |                  |                  |          |
| the separation   |                  |                  |          |
| between the      |                  |                  |          |
| carrier          |                  |                  |          |
| frequency and    |                  |                  |          |
| the centre of    |                  |                  |          |
| the measurement  |                  |                  |          |
| bandwidth.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 2: The      |                  |                  |          |
| minimum          |                  |                  |          |
| requirement is   |                  |                  |          |
| calculated from  |                  |                  |          |
| the relative     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement or   |                  |                  |          |
| the absolute     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement,     |                  |                  |          |
| whichever is the |                  |                  |          |
| higher power.    |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 3: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 30 kHz filter is |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 2.515 MHz and    |                  |                  |          |
| 3.485 MHz.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 4: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 1 MHz filter is  |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 4 MHz and        |                  |                  |          |
| 12 MHz.          |                  |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+

For operation in band II, IV, V, X, XII, XIII, XIV, XXV and XXVI the
minimum requirement is calculated from the minimum requirement in table
5.9AB.1 or the applicable additional requirement in Tables 5.9AB.1A,
5.9AB.1B or 5.9AB.1C, whichever is the tighter requirement.

Table 5.9AB.1A: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands II, IV, X
and XXV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band II, IV, X   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                                  30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   4.0MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.0 MHz                                       -13 dBm                                  1 MHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9AB.1B: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands V and XXVI

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band V   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                        

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                          30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   3.55MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                          100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                         
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9AB.1C: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands XII, XIII
and XIV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band XII, XIII, XIV   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                     

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 2.6 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 2.585MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       30 kHz

  2.6 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.45 MHz                                                                                  2.65MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                      
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------

NOTE: As a general rule, the resolution bandwidth of the measuring
equipment should be equal to the measurement bandwidth specified in
tables 5.9AB.1, 5.9AB.1A, 5.9AB.1B and 5.9AB.1C. However, to improve
measurement accuracy, sensitivity and efficiency, the resolution
bandwidth may be smaller than the measurement bandwidth. When the
resolution bandwidth is smaller than the measurement bandwidth, the
result should be integrated over the measurement bandwidth in order to
obtain the equivalent noise bandwidth of the measurement bandwidth.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\],
clause 6.6.2.1C.

### 5.9AB.3 Test purpose

To verify that the power of UE emission for UL CLTD activation state 1
does not exceed the prescribed limits shown in table 5.9AB.1. even in
the presence of the HS-DPCCH. (see note). This is applicable for all
values of![](media/image12.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.25in"},![](media/image13.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in"
height="0.25in"}and![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.25in"
height="0.25in"} as specified in \[5\]. The maximum output power with
HS-DPCCH is specified in table 5.2A.1.

Excess emission increases the interference to other channels or to other
systems.

NOTE: For a static signal, the measurement with a 1MHz filter can be
replaced by a narrower filter and integration over the bandwidth (Note 6
in table 5.9AB.1). For a non static signal the above described
replacement gives different results, depending on the type of dynamic in
the signal and depending on the bandwidth of the filter. Hence the
signal is tested only when static.

### 5.9AB.4 Method of test

#### 5.9AB.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see
clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK version) are specified in Annex C, clauses
C.10.2 and C.8.1.1.

3\) An HSDPA call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.17.
RF parameters are set up according to table E.5.1 and table E.5.10.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.9AB.2.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

Table 5.9AB.2: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of\
Spectrum Emission Mask with HS-DPCCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.9AB.4.1                |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

#### 5.9AB.4.2 Procedure

1\) Send TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to set the beta
values according to table C.10.2.4 and the DPCH frame offset according
the HS-DPCCH slot offset required for measurements.

> 2\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE.
>
> 3\) Start transmitting HSDPA Data.
>
> 4\) When UE has reached the maximum power, measure the power of the
> transmitted signal with a measurement filter of bandwidths according
> to table 5.9AB.3 and 5.9AB.3A, 5.9AB.3B, 5.9AB.3C if applicable. For
> measurements using 1 MHz or 100KHz measurement bandwidths the result
> may be calculated by integrating multiple 50 kHz or narrower
> filter(≥3kHz) measurements. The characteristic of the filter shall be
> approximately Gaussian (typical spectrum analyzer filter). The centre
> frequency of the filter shall be stepped in contiguous steps according
> to table 5.9AB.3 and 5.9AB.3A, 5.9AB.3B, 5.9AB.3C if applicable. The
> measured power shall be recorded for each step. The measurement
> duration with the filter on one frequency shall last at least the
> filter settling time and the measurement period shall be inside the
> HS-DPCCH on-period.
>
> 5\) Measure the RRC filtered mean power centred on the assigned
> channel frequency.
>
> 6\) Calculate the ratio of the power 4) with respect to 5) in dBc.

7\) Repeat steps 1-6 for all the different combinations of beta values
as given in table C.10.2.4.

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9 of TS 34.108 \[3\], except the
TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message which is defined in Annex I.

### 5.9AB.5 Test requirements

The result of clause 5.9AB.4.2 step 6) shall fulfil the requirements of
table 5.9AB.3.

For operation in band II, IV, V, X, XII, XIII, XIV, XXV and XXVI both
minimum requirement in table 5.9AB.3 and the applicable additional
requirement in Tables 5.9AB.3A, 5.9AB.3B, or 5.9AB.3C need to be
satisfied.

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL CLTD activation
state 1, the spectrum emission mask requirements apply at each transmit
antenna connector.

Table 5.9AB.3: Spectrum Emission Mask Requirement

+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| Δf in MHz\       | Minimum          | Measurement      |          |
| (note 1)         | requirement      | bandwidth        |          |
|                  | (note 2)         |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
|                  | Relative         | Absolute         |          |
|                  | requirement      | requirement      |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 2.5 - 3.5        | ![]              | -69.6 dBm        | 30 kHz\  |
|                  | (media/image34.w |                  | (note 3) |
|                  | mf){width="1.915 |                  |          |
|                  | 9722222222222in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.4479   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666667in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 3.5 - 7.5        | ![]              | -54.3 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image35.w |                  | (note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="1.843 |                  |          |
|                  | 0555555555554in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5104   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666666in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 7.5 - 8.5        | ![]              | -54.3 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image36.w |                  | (note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="1.915 |                  |          |
|                  | 9722222222222in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.4479   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666667in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 8.5 - 12.5 MHz   | -47.5 dBc        | -54.3 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  |                  |                  | (note 4) |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| NOTE 1: ∆f is    |                  |                  |          |
| the separation   |                  |                  |          |
| between the      |                  |                  |          |
| carrier          |                  |                  |          |
| frequency and    |                  |                  |          |
| the centre of    |                  |                  |          |
| the measurement  |                  |                  |          |
| bandwidth.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 2: The      |                  |                  |          |
| minimum          |                  |                  |          |
| requirement is   |                  |                  |          |
| calculated from  |                  |                  |          |
| the relative     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement or   |                  |                  |          |
| the absolute     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement,     |                  |                  |          |
| whichever is the |                  |                  |          |
| higher power.    |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 3: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 30 kHz filter is |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 2.515 MHz and    |                  |                  |          |
| 3.485 MHz.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 4: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 1 MHz filter is  |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 4 MHz and        |                  |                  |          |
| 12 MHz.          |                  |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+

Table 5.9AB.3A: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands II, IV, X
and XXV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band II, IV, X   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                                  30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   4.0MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.0 MHz                                       -13 dBm                                  1 MHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9AB.3B: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands V and XXVI

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band V   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                        

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                          30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   3.55MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                          100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                         
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9AB.3C: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands XII, XIII
and XIV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band XII, XIII, XIV   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                     

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 2.6 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 2.585MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       30 kHz

  2.6 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.45 MHz                                                                                  2.65MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                      
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.9AC Spectrum Emission Mask with HS-DPCCH for UL CLTD activation state 2 and 3
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.9AC.1 Definition and applicability

The spectrum emission mask of the UE applies to frequencies, which are
between 2.5 MHz and 12.5 MHz away from the UE centre carrier frequency.
The out of channel emission is specified relative to the RRC filtered
mean power of the UE carrier.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL CLTD and HSDPA.

### 5.9AC.2 Minimum Requirements

The power of any UE emission shall not exceed the levels specified in
Table 5.9AC.1. The absolute requirement is based on a -50 dBm/3.84 MHz
minimum power threshold for the UE. This limit is expressed for the
narrower measurement bandwidths as -55.8 dBm/1 MHz and -71.1 dBm/30 kHz.
The requirements are applicable for all values of β~c~, β~d~, β~hs~ as
specified in \[5\].

For UE configured in UL CLTD activation state 2 or activation state 3,
the spectrum emission mask requirements apply at the active transmit
antenna connector.

Table 5.9AC.1: Spectrum Emission Mask Requirement

+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| Δf in MHz\       | Minimum          | Measurement      |          |
| (note 1)         | requirement      | bandwidth        |          |
|                  | (note 2)         |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
|                  | Relative         | Absolute         |          |
|                  | requirement      | requirement      |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 2.5 - 3.5        | ![](             | -71.1 dBm        | 30 kHz\  |
|                  | media/image31.wm |                  | (note 3) |
|                  | f){width="2.0in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5in"}  |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 3.5 - 7.5        | ![]              | -55.8 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image32.w |                  | (note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="1.999 |                  |          |
|                  | 3055555555554in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5263   |                  |          |
|                  | 888888888889in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 7.5 - 8.5        | ![]              | -55.8 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image33.w |                  | (note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="2.019 |                  |          |
|                  | 4444444444444in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5104   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666666in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 8.5 - 12.5 MHz   | -49 dBc          | -55.8 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  |                  |                  | (note 4) |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| NOTE 1: ∆f is    |                  |                  |          |
| the separation   |                  |                  |          |
| between the      |                  |                  |          |
| carrier          |                  |                  |          |
| frequency and    |                  |                  |          |
| the centre of    |                  |                  |          |
| the measurement  |                  |                  |          |
| bandwidth.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 2: The      |                  |                  |          |
| minimum          |                  |                  |          |
| requirement is   |                  |                  |          |
| calculated from  |                  |                  |          |
| the relative     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement or   |                  |                  |          |
| the absolute     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement,     |                  |                  |          |
| whichever is the |                  |                  |          |
| higher power.    |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 3: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 30 kHz filter is |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 2.515 MHz and    |                  |                  |          |
| 3.485 MHz.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 4: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 1 MHz filter is  |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 4 MHz and        |                  |                  |          |
| 12 MHz.          |                  |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+

For operation in band II, IV, V, X, XII, XIII, XIV, XXV and XXVI the
minimum requirement is calculated from the minimum requirement in table
5.9AC.1 or the applicable additional requirement in Tables 5.9AC.1A,
5.9AC.1B or 5.9AC.1C, whichever is the tighter requirement.

Table 5.9AC.1A: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands II, IV, X
and XXV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band II, IV, X   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                                  30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   4.0MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.0 MHz                                       -13 dBm                                  1 MHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9AC.1B: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands V and XXVI

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band V   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                        

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                          30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   3.55MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                          100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                         
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9AC.1C: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands XII, XIII
and XIV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band XII, XIII, XIV   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                     

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 2.6 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 2.585MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       30 kHz

  2.6 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.45 MHz                                                                                  2.65MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                      
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------

NOTE: As a general rule, the resolution bandwidth of the measuring
equipment should be equal to the measurement bandwidth specified in
tables 5.9AC.1, 5.9AC.1A, 5.9AC.1B and 5.9AC.1C. However, to improve
measurement accuracy, sensitivity and efficiency, the resolution
bandwidth may be smaller than the measurement bandwidth. When the
resolution bandwidth is smaller than the measurement bandwidth, the
result should be integrated over the measurement bandwidth in order to
obtain the equivalent noise bandwidth of the measurement bandwidth.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\],
clause 6.6.2.1C.

### 5.9AC.3 Test purpose

To verify that the power of UE emission for UL CLTD activation state 2
and 3 does not exceed the prescribed limits shown in table 5.9AC.1. even
in the presence of the HS-DPCCH. (see note). This is applicable for all
values of![](media/image12.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.25in"},![](media/image13.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in"
height="0.25in"}and![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.25in"
height="0.25in"} as specified in \[5\]. The maximum output power with
HS-DPCCH is specified in table 5.2A.1.

Excess emission increases the interference to other channels or to other
systems.

NOTE: For a static signal, the measurement with a 1MHz filter can be
replaced by a narrower filter and integration over the bandwidth (Note 6
in table 5.9AC.1). For a non static signal the above described
replacement gives different results, depending on the type of dynamic in
the signal and depending on the bandwidth of the filter. Hence the
signal is tested only when static.

### 5.9AC.4 Method of test

#### 5.9AC.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK version) are specified in Annex C, clauses
C.10.1 and C.8.1.1.

3\) An HSDPA call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.17
with the following exception in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages in table
5.9AC.2A. This exception allows the call to be setup with initial UL
CLTD activation state as state 2. RF parameters are set up according to
table E.5.1 and table E.5.10. Settings for the serving cell are defined
in table 5.9AC.2.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

Table 5.9AC.2: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of\
Spectrum Emission Mask with HS-DPCCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.9AC.4.1                |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, clause        |              |                          |
| 5.2.3.1.2.               |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

Table 5.9AC.2A: Contents of Radio bearer setup message

  ---------------------------------- -------------- ---------
  Information Element                Value/remark   Version
  Uplink CLTD info FDD                              Rel-11
  \- CHOICE *Mode*                   New            
  \- Initial CLTD activation state   Second state   
  ---------------------------------- -------------- ---------

#### 5.9AC.4.2 Procedure

1\) Send TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to set the beta
values according to table C.10.1.4 and the DPCH frame offset according
the HS-DPCCH slot offset required for measurements.

> 2\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE.
>
> 3\) Start transmitting HSDPA Data.
>
> 4\) When UE has reached the maximum power, measure the power of the
> transmitted signal with a measurement filter of bandwidths according
> to table 5.9AC.3 and 5.9AC.3A, 5.9AC.3B, 5.9AC.3C if applicable. For
> measurements using 1 MHz or 100KHz measurement bandwidths the result
> may be calculated by integrating multiple 50 kHz or narrower
> filter(≥3kHz) measurements. The characteristic of the filter shall be
> approximately Gaussian (typical spectrum analyzer filter). The centre
> frequency of the filter shall be stepped in contiguous steps according
> to table 5.9AC.3 and 5.9AC.3A, 5.9AC.3B, 5.9AC.3C if applicable. The
> measured power shall be recorded for each step. The measurement
> duration with the filter on one frequency shall last at least the
> filter settling time and the measurement period shall be inside the
> HS-DPCCH on-period.
>
> 5\) Measure the RRC filtered mean power centred on the assigned
> channel frequency.
>
> 6\) Calculate the ratio of the power 4) with respect to 5) in dBc.

7\) Repeat steps 1-6 for all the different combinations of beta values
as given in table C.10.1.4.

> 8\) SS sends a HS-SCCH order now to move the UE in UL\_CLTD activation
> state 3.
>
> 9\) Repeat step 1 to 7 for activation state 3

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9 of TS 34.108 \[3\], except the
TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message which is defined in Annex I.

### 5.9AC.5 Test requirements

The result of clause 5.9AC.4.2 step 6) shall fulfil the requirements of
table 5.9AC.3.

For operation in band II, IV, V, X, XII, XIII, XIV, XXV and XXVI both
minimum requirement in table 5.9AC.3 and the applicable additional
requirement in Tables 5.9AC.3A, 5.9AC.3B, or 5.9AC.3C need to be
satisfied.

For UE configured in UL CLTD activation state 2 or activation state 3,
the spectrum emission mask requirements apply at the active transmit
antenna connector.

Table 5.9AC.3: Spectrum Emission Mask Requirement

+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| Δf in MHz\       | Minimum          | Measurement      |          |
| (note 1)         | requirement      | bandwidth        |          |
|                  | (note 2)         |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
|                  | Relative         | Absolute         |          |
|                  | requirement      | requirement      |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 2.5 - 3.5        | ![]              | -69.6 dBm        | 30 kHz\  |
|                  | (media/image34.w |                  | (note 3) |
|                  | mf){width="1.915 |                  |          |
|                  | 9722222222222in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.4479   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666667in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 3.5 - 7.5        | ![]              | -54.3 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image35.w |                  | (note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="1.843 |                  |          |
|                  | 0555555555554in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5104   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666666in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 7.5 - 8.5        | ![]              | -54.3 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image36.w |                  | (note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="1.915 |                  |          |
|                  | 9722222222222in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.4479   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666667in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 8.5 - 12.5 MHz   | -47.5 dBc        | -54.3 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  |                  |                  | (note 4) |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| NOTE 1: ∆f is    |                  |                  |          |
| the separation   |                  |                  |          |
| between the      |                  |                  |          |
| carrier          |                  |                  |          |
| frequency and    |                  |                  |          |
| the centre of    |                  |                  |          |
| the measurement  |                  |                  |          |
| bandwidth.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 2: The      |                  |                  |          |
| minimum          |                  |                  |          |
| requirement is   |                  |                  |          |
| calculated from  |                  |                  |          |
| the relative     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement or   |                  |                  |          |
| the absolute     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement,     |                  |                  |          |
| whichever is the |                  |                  |          |
| higher power.    |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 3: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 30 kHz filter is |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 2.515 MHz and    |                  |                  |          |
| 3.485 MHz.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 4: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 1 MHz filter is  |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 4 MHz and        |                  |                  |          |
| 12 MHz.          |                  |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+

Table 5.9AC.3A: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands II, IV, X
and XXV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band II, IV, X   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                                  30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   4.0MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.0 MHz                                       -13 dBm                                  1 MHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9AC.3B: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands V and XXVI

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band V   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                        

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                          30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   3.55MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                          100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                         
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9AC.3C: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands XII, XIII
and XIV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band XII, XIII, XIV   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                     

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 2.6 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 2.585MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       30 kHz

  2.6 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.45 MHz                                                                                  2.65MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                      
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.9B Spectrum Emission Mask with E-DCH
--------------------------------------

### 5.9B.1 Definition and applicability

The spectrum emission mask of the UE applies to frequencies, which are
between 2.5 MHz and 12.5 MHz away from the UE centre carrier frequency.
The out of channel emission is specified relative to the RRC filtered
mean power of the UE carrier.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 6 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA and E-DCH.

### 5.9B.2 Minimum Requirements

The power of any UE emission shall not exceed the levels specified in
table 5.9B.1. The absolute requirement is based on a -50 dBm/3.84 MHz
minimum power threshold for the UE. This limit is expressed for the
narrower measurement bandwidths as -55.8 dBm/1 MHz and -71.1 dBm/30 kHz.
This is applicable for all values of *β~c\ ~*, *β~d~*,* β~hs~*,
*β~ec\ ~*and *β~ed\ ~* as specified in \[5\].

Table 5.9B.1: Spectrum Emission Mask Requirement

+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| Δf in MHz\       | Minimum          | Measurement      |          |
| (note 1)         | requirement      | bandwidth        |          |
|                  | (note 2)         |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
|                  | Relative         | Absolute         |          |
|                  | requirement      | requirement      |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 2.5 - 3.5        | ![](             | -71.1 dBm        | 30 kHz\  |
|                  | media/image31.wm |                  | (note 3) |
|                  | f){width="2.0in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5in"}  |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 3.5 - 7.5        | ![]              | -55.8 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image32.w |                  | (note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="1.999 |                  |          |
|                  | 3055555555554in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5263   |                  |          |
|                  | 888888888889in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 7.5 - 8.5        | ![]              | -55.8 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image33.w |                  | (note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="2.019 |                  |          |
|                  | 4444444444444in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5104   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666666in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 8.5 - 12.5 MHz   | -49 dBc          | -55.8 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  |                  |                  | (note 4) |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| NOTE 1: ∆f is    |                  |                  |          |
| the separation   |                  |                  |          |
| between the      |                  |                  |          |
| carrier          |                  |                  |          |
| frequency and    |                  |                  |          |
| the centre of    |                  |                  |          |
| the measurement  |                  |                  |          |
| bandwidth.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 2: The      |                  |                  |          |
| minimum          |                  |                  |          |
| requirement is   |                  |                  |          |
| calculated from  |                  |                  |          |
| the relative     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement or   |                  |                  |          |
| the absolute     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement,     |                  |                  |          |
| whichever is the |                  |                  |          |
| higher power.    |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 3: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 30 kHz filter is |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 2.515 MHz and    |                  |                  |          |
| 3.485 MHz.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 4: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 1 MHz filter is  |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 4 MHz and        |                  |                  |          |
| 12 MHz.          |                  |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+

For operation in band II, IV, V, X, XII, XIII, XIV, XXV and XXVI the
minimum requirement is calculated from the minimum requirement in table
5.9B.1 or the applicable additional requirement in Tables 5.9B.1A,
5.9B.1B or 5.9B.1C, whichever is the tighter requirement.

Table 5.9B.1A: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands II, IV, X
and XXV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band II, IV, X   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                                  30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   4.0MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.0 MHz                                       -13 dBm                                  1 MHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9B.1B: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands V and XXVI

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band V   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                        

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                          30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   3.55MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                          100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                         
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9B.1C: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands XII, XIII,
XIV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band XII, XIII, XIV   Measurement bandwidth
  (Note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                     

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 2.6 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 2.585MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       30 kHz

  2.6 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.45 MHz                                                                                  2.65MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                      
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------

NOTE: As a general rule, the resolution bandwidth of the measuring
equipment should be equal to the measurement bandwidth specified in
tables 5.9B.1, 5.9B.1A, 5.9B.1B and 5.9B.1C. However, to improve
measurement accuracy, sensitivity and efficiency, the resolution
bandwidth may be smaller than the measurement bandwidth. When the
resolution bandwidth is smaller than the measurement bandwidth, the
result should be integrated over the measurement bandwidth in order to
obtain the equivalent noise bandwidth of the measurement bandwidth.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.6.2.1.1.

### 5.9B.3 Test purpose

To verify that the power of UE emission does not exceed the prescribed
limits shown in table 5.9B.1. even in the presence of the E-DCH. (see
note). This is applicable for all values of *β~c\ ~*, *β~d\ ~*
,* β~hs~*, *β~ec\ ~*and *β~ed\ ~* as specified in \[5\]. The maximum
output power with HS-DPCCH and/or E-DCH is specified in table 5.2B.1.

Excess emission increases the interference to other channels or to other
systems.

NOTE: For a static signal, the measurement with a 1MHz filter can be
replaced by a narrower filter and integration over the bandwidth. (Note
6 in table 5.9B.1) For a non static signal the above described
replacement gives different results, depending on the type of dynamic in
the signal and depending on the bandwidth of the filter. Hence the
signal is tested only when static.

### 5.9B.4 Method of test

#### 5.9B.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.1.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK) are specified in Annex C.11.1 and C.8.1.1.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.9 with the
exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages as given in Tables
5.2B.1A, 5.2B.2, 5.2B3, 5.2B.3A and 5.2B.4. These exceptions allow the
beta values to be set according to table C.11.1.3 and each UL physical
channel to be at constant power during the measurement. RF parameters
are set up according to table E.5A.1. Settings for the serving cell are
defined in table 5.9B.2.

4\) For sub-test 1 to 4, enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping
back both the 12.2kbps RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH according to procedure
7.3.9.3.1 in TS 34.108 \[3\] and start the loopback test. For sub-test
5, enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping back HSDPA to E-DCH
according to procedure 7.3.9.3.2 in TS 34.108 \[3\] and start the
loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.9B.2: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of\
Spectrum Emission Mask with E-DCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.9B.4.1                 |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

#### 5.9B.4.2 Procedure

> 1\) For sub-test 1 to 4, set UE to maximum output power according to
> 5.2B.4.2.1 steps 1 to 8. For sub-test 5, set UE to maximum output
> power according to 5.2B.4.2.2 step 1 to 4.
>
> 2\) When UE has reached the maximum power, measure the power of the
> transmitted signal with a measurement filter of bandwidths according
> to table 5.9B.3 and 5.9B.3A, 5.9B.3B, 5.9B.3C if applicable. For
> measurements using 1 MHz or 100KHz measurement bandwidths the result
> may be calculated by integrating multiple 50 kHz or narrower
> filter(≥3kHz) measurements. The characteristic of the filter shall be
> approximately Gaussian (typical spectrum analyzer filter). The centre
> frequency of the filter shall be stepped in contiguous steps according
> to table 5.9B.3 and 5.9B.3A, 5.9B.3B 5.9B.3C if applicable. The
> measured power shall be recorded for each step. The measurement
> duration with the filter on one frequency shall last at least the
> filter settling time and the measurement period shall be inside the
> HS-DPCCH on-period.
>
> 3\) Measure the RRC filtered mean power centred on the assigned
> channel frequency.
>
> 4\) Calculate the ratio of the power 2) with respect to 3) in dBc.

5\) Repeat steps 1-4 for all the different combinations of beta values
as given in table C.11.1.3.

### 5.9B.5 Test requirements

The result of clause 5.9B.4.2 step 4) shall fulfil the requirements of
table 5.9B.3.

For operation in band II, IV, V, X, XII, XIII, XIV, XXV and XXVI both
minimum requirement in table 5.9B.3 and the applicable additional
requirement in Tables  5.9B.3A, 5.9B.3B or 5.9B.3C need to be satisfied.

Table 5.9B.3: Spectrum Emission Mask Requirement

+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| Δf in MHz\       | Minimum          | Measurement      |          |
| (Note 1)         | requirement      | bandwidth        |          |
|                  | (Note 2)         |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
|                  | Relative         | Absolute         |          |
|                  | requirement      | requirement      |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 2.5 - 3.5        | ![]              | -69.6 dBm        | 30 kHz\  |
|                  | (media/image34.w |                  | (Note 3) |
|                  | mf){width="1.915 |                  |          |
|                  | 9722222222222in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.4479   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666667in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 3.5 - 7.5        | ![]              | -54.3 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image35.w |                  | (Note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="1.843 |                  |          |
|                  | 0555555555554in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5104   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666666in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 7.5 - 8.5        | ![]              | -54.3 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image36.w |                  | (Note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="1.915 |                  |          |
|                  | 9722222222222in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.4479   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666667in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 8.5 - 12.5 MHz   | -47.5 dBc        | -54.3 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  |                  |                  | (Note 4) |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| NOTE 1: ∆f is    |                  |                  |          |
| the separation   |                  |                  |          |
| between the      |                  |                  |          |
| carrier          |                  |                  |          |
| frequency and    |                  |                  |          |
| the centre of    |                  |                  |          |
| the measurement  |                  |                  |          |
| bandwidth.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 2: The      |                  |                  |          |
| minimum          |                  |                  |          |
| requirement is   |                  |                  |          |
| calculated from  |                  |                  |          |
| the relative     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement or   |                  |                  |          |
| the absolute     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement,     |                  |                  |          |
| whichever is the |                  |                  |          |
| higher power.    |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 3: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 30 kHz filter is |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 2.515 MHz and    |                  |                  |          |
| 3.485 MHz.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 4: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 1 MHz filter is  |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 4 MHz and        |                  |                  |          |
| 12 MHz.          |                  |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+

Table 5.9B.3A: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands II, IV, X
and XXV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band II, IV, X   Measurement bandwidth
  (Note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                                  30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   4.0MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.0 MHz                                       -13 dBm                                  1 MHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9B.3B: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands V and XXVI

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band V   Measurement bandwidth
  (Note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                        

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                          30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   3.55MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                          100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                         
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9B.3C: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands XII, XIII
and XIV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band XII, XIII, XIV   Measurement bandwidth
  (Note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                     

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 2.6 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 2.585MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       30 kHz

  2.6 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.45 MHz                                                                                  2.65MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                      
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.9BA Spectrum Emission Mask with E-DCH for UL OLTD
---------------------------------------------------

### 5.9BA.1 Definition and applicability

The spectrum emission mask of the UE applies to frequencies, which are
between 2.5 MHz and 12.5 MHz away from the UE centre carrier frequency.
The out of channel emission is specified relative to the RRC filtered
mean power of the UE carrier.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL OLTD and E-DCH.

### 5.9BA.2 Minimum Requirements

The power of any UE emission shall not exceed the levels specified in
table 5.9BA.1. The absolute requirement is based on a -50 dBm/3.84 MHz
minimum power threshold for the UE. This limit is expressed for the
narrower measurement bandwidths as -55.8 dBm/1 MHz and -71.1 dBm/30 kHz.
This is applicable for all values of *β~c\ ~*, *β~d~*,* β~hs~*,
*β~ec\ ~*and *β~ed\ ~*as specified in \[5\].

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL OLTD, the
spectrum emission mask requirements apply at each transmit antenna
connector.

Table 5.9BA.1: Spectrum Emission Mask Requirement

+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| Δf in MHz\       | Minimum          | Measurement      |          |
| (note 1)         | requirement      | bandwidth        |          |
|                  | (note 2)         |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
|                  | Relative         | Absolute         |          |
|                  | requirement      | requirement      |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 2.5 - 3.5        | ![](             | -71.1 dBm        | 30 kHz\  |
|                  | media/image31.wm |                  | (note 3) |
|                  | f){width="2.0in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5in"}  |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 3.5 - 7.5        | ![]              | -55.8 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image32.w |                  | (note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="1.999 |                  |          |
|                  | 3055555555554in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5263   |                  |          |
|                  | 888888888889in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 7.5 - 8.5        | ![]              | -55.8 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image33.w |                  | (note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="2.019 |                  |          |
|                  | 4444444444444in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5104   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666666in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 8.5 - 12.5 MHz   | -49 dBc          | -55.8 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  |                  |                  | (note 4) |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| NOTE 1: ∆f is    |                  |                  |          |
| the separation   |                  |                  |          |
| between the      |                  |                  |          |
| carrier          |                  |                  |          |
| frequency and    |                  |                  |          |
| the centre of    |                  |                  |          |
| the measurement  |                  |                  |          |
| bandwidth.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 2: The      |                  |                  |          |
| minimum          |                  |                  |          |
| requirement is   |                  |                  |          |
| calculated from  |                  |                  |          |
| the relative     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement or   |                  |                  |          |
| the absolute     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement,     |                  |                  |          |
| whichever is the |                  |                  |          |
| higher power.    |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 3: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 30 kHz filter is |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 2.515 MHz and    |                  |                  |          |
| 3.485 MHz.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 4: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 1 MHz filter is  |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 4 MHz and        |                  |                  |          |
| 12 MHz.          |                  |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+

For operation in band II, IV, V, X, XII, XIII, XIV, XXV and XXVI the
minimum requirement is calculated from the minimum requirement in table
5.9BA.1 or the applicable additional requirement in Tables 5.9BA.1A,
5.9BA.1B or 5.9BA.1C, whichever is the tighter requirement.

Table 5.9BA.1A: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands II, IV, X
and XXV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band II, IV, X   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                                  30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   4.0MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.0 MHz                                       -13 dBm                                  1 MHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9BA.1B: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands V and XXVI

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band V   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                        

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                          30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   3.55MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                          100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                         
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9BA.1C: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands XII, XIII,
XIV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band XII, XIII, XIV   Measurement bandwidth
  (Note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                     

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 2.6 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 2.585MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       30 kHz

  2.6 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.45 MHz                                                                                  2.65MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                      
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------

NOTE: As a general rule, the resolution bandwidth of the measuring
equipment should be equal to the measurement bandwidth specified in
tables 5.9BA.1, 5.9BA.1A, 5.9BA.1B and 5.9BA.1C. However, to improve
measurement accuracy, sensitivity and efficiency, the resolution
bandwidth may be smaller than the measurement bandwidth. When the
resolution bandwidth is smaller than the measurement bandwidth, the
result should be integrated over the measurement bandwidth in order to
obtain the equivalent noise bandwidth of the measurement bandwidth.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\]
clause 6.6.2.1B.

### 5.9BA.3 Test purpose

To verify that the power of UE emission for UL OLTD does not exceed the
prescribed limits shown in table 5.9BA.1. even in the presence of the
E-DCH. (see note). This is applicable for all values of *β~c\ ~*,
*β~d\ ~*,* β~hs~*, *β~ec\ ~*and *β~ed\ ~*as specified in \[5\]. The
maximum output power with HS-DPCCH and/or E-DCH is specified in table
5.2B.1.

Excess emission increases the interference to other channels or to other
systems.

NOTE: For a static signal, the measurement with a 1MHz filter can be
replaced by a narrower filter and integration over the bandwidth. (Note
6 in table 5.9BA.1) For a non static signal the above described
replacement gives different results, depending on the type of dynamic in
the signal and depending on the bandwidth of the filter. Hence the
signal is tested only when static.

### 5.9BA.4 Method of test

#### 5.9BA.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK) are specified in Annex C.11.1A and
C.8.1.1..

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.20 with the
exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages as given in Tables
5.2B.1A, 5.2B.2, 5.2B3, 5.2B.3A and 5.2B.4. These exceptions allow the
beta values to be set according to table C.11.1A.4 and each UL physical
channel to be at constant power during the measurement. RF parameters
are set up according to table E.5A.1. Settings for the serving cell are
defined in table 5.9BA.2.

4\) For sub-test 1 to 4, enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping
back both the 12.2kbps RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH according to procedure
7.3.9.3.1 in TS 34.108 \[3\] and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.9BA.2: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of\
Spectrum Emission Mask with E-DCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.9BA.4.1                |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

#### 5.9BA.4.2 Procedure

> 1\) For sub-test 1 to 4, set UE to maximum output power according to
> 5.2B.4.2.1 steps 1 to 8.
>
> 2\) When UE has reached the maximum power, measure the power of the
> transmitted signal with a measurement filter of bandwidths according
> to table 5.9BA.3 and 5.9BA.3A, 5.9BA.3B, 5.9BA.3C if applicable. For
> measurements using 1 MHz or 100 KHz measurement bandwidths the result
> may be calculated by integrating multiple 50 kHz or narrower filter
> (≥3kHz) measurements. The characteristic of the filter shall be
> approximately Gaussian (typical spectrum analyzer filter). The centre
> frequency of the filter shall be stepped in contiguous steps according
> to table 5.9BA.3 and 5.9BA.3A, 5.9BA.3B 5.9BA.3C if applicable. The
> measured power shall be recorded for each step. The measurement
> duration with the filter on one frequency shall last at least the
> filter settling time and the measurement period shall be inside the
> HS-DPCCH on-period.
>
> 3\) Measure the RRC filtered mean power centred on the assigned
> channel frequency.
>
> 4\) Calculate the ratio of the power 2) with respect to 3) in dBc.

5\) Repeat steps 1-4 for all the different combinations of beta values
as given in table C.11.1A.4.

### 5.9BA.5 Test requirements

The result of clause 5.9BA.4.2 step 4) shall fulfil the requirements of
table 5.9BA.3.

For operation in band II, IV, V, X, XII, XIII, XIV, XXV and XXVI both
minimum requirement in table 5.9BA.3 and the applicable additional
requirement in Tables 5.9BA.3A, 5.9BA.3B or 5.9BA.3C need to be
satisfied.

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL OLTD , the
spectrum emission mask requirements apply at each transmit antenna
connector.

Table 5.9BA.3: Spectrum Emission Mask Requirement

+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| Δf in MHz\       | Minimum          | Measurement      |          |
| (Note 1)         | requirement      | bandwidth        |          |
|                  | (Note 2)         |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
|                  | Relative         | Absolute         |          |
|                  | requirement      | requirement      |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 2.5 - 3.5        | ![]              | -69.6 dBm        | 30 kHz\  |
|                  | (media/image34.w |                  | (Note 3) |
|                  | mf){width="1.915 |                  |          |
|                  | 9722222222222in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.4479   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666667in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 3.5 - 7.5        | ![]              | -54.3 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image35.w |                  | (Note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="1.843 |                  |          |
|                  | 0555555555554in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5104   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666666in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 7.5 - 8.5        | ![]              | -54.3 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image36.w |                  | (Note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="1.915 |                  |          |
|                  | 9722222222222in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.4479   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666667in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 8.5 - 12.5 MHz   | -47.5 dBc        | -54.3 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  |                  |                  | (Note 4) |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| NOTE 1: ∆f is    |                  |                  |          |
| the separation   |                  |                  |          |
| between the      |                  |                  |          |
| carrier          |                  |                  |          |
| frequency and    |                  |                  |          |
| the centre of    |                  |                  |          |
| the measurement  |                  |                  |          |
| bandwidth.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 2: The      |                  |                  |          |
| minimum          |                  |                  |          |
| requirement is   |                  |                  |          |
| calculated from  |                  |                  |          |
| the relative     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement or   |                  |                  |          |
| the absolute     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement,     |                  |                  |          |
| whichever is the |                  |                  |          |
| higher power.    |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 3: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 30 kHz filter is |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 2.515 MHz and    |                  |                  |          |
| 3.485 MHz.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 4: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 1 MHz filter is  |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 4 MHz and        |                  |                  |          |
| 12 MHz.          |                  |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+

Table 5.9BA.3A: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands II, IV, X
and XXV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band II, IV, X   Measurement bandwidth
  (Note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                                  30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   4.0MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.0 MHz                                       -13 dBm                                  1 MHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9BA.3B: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands V and XXVI

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band V   Measurement bandwidth
  (Note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                        

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                          30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   3.55MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                          100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                         
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9BA.3C: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands XII, XIII
and XIV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band XII, XIII, XIV   Measurement bandwidth
  (Note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                     

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 2.6 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 2.585MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       30 kHz

  2.6 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.45 MHz                                                                                  2.65MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                      
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.9BB Spectrum Emission Mask with E-DCH for UL CLTD activation state 1
----------------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.9BB.1 Definition and applicability

The spectrum emission mask of the UE applies to frequencies, which are
between 2.5 MHz and 12.5 MHz away from the UE centre carrier frequency.
The out of channel emission is specified relative to the RRC filtered
mean power of the UE carrier.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL CLTD HSDPA and
E-DCH.

### 5.9BB.2 Minimum Requirements

The power of any UE emission shall not exceed the levels specified in
table 5.9BB.1. The absolute requirement is based on a -50 dBm/3.84 MHz
minimum power threshold for the UE. This limit is expressed for the
narrower measurement bandwidths as -55.8 dBm/1 MHz and -71.1 dBm/30 kHz.
This is applicable for all values of *β~c\ ~*, *β~d~*,* β~hs~*,
*β~ec\ ~*and *β~ed\ ~*as specified in \[5\].

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL CLTD activation
state 1, the spectrum emission mask requirements apply at each transmit
antenna connector.

Table 5.9BB.1: Spectrum Emission Mask Requirement

+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| Δf in MHz\       | Minimum          | Measurement      |          |
| (note 1)         | requirement      | bandwidth        |          |
|                  | (note 2)         |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
|                  | Relative         | Absolute         |          |
|                  | requirement      | requirement      |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 2.5 - 3.5        | ![](             | -71.1 dBm        | 30 kHz\  |
|                  | media/image31.wm |                  | (note 3) |
|                  | f){width="2.0in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5in"}  |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 3.5 - 7.5        | ![]              | -55.8 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image32.w |                  | (note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="1.999 |                  |          |
|                  | 3055555555554in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5263   |                  |          |
|                  | 888888888889in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 7.5 - 8.5        | ![]              | -55.8 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image33.w |                  | (note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="2.019 |                  |          |
|                  | 4444444444444in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5104   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666666in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 8.5 - 12.5 MHz   | -49 dBc          | -55.8 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  |                  |                  | (note 4) |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| NOTE 1: ∆f is    |                  |                  |          |
| the separation   |                  |                  |          |
| between the      |                  |                  |          |
| carrier          |                  |                  |          |
| frequency and    |                  |                  |          |
| the centre of    |                  |                  |          |
| the measurement  |                  |                  |          |
| bandwidth.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 2: The      |                  |                  |          |
| minimum          |                  |                  |          |
| requirement is   |                  |                  |          |
| calculated from  |                  |                  |          |
| the relative     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement or   |                  |                  |          |
| the absolute     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement,     |                  |                  |          |
| whichever is the |                  |                  |          |
| higher power.    |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 3: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 30 kHz filter is |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 2.515 MHz and    |                  |                  |          |
| 3.485 MHz.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 4: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 1 MHz filter is  |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 4 MHz and        |                  |                  |          |
| 12 MHz.          |                  |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+

For operation in band II, IV, V, X, XII, XIII, XIV, XXV and XXVI the
minimum requirement is calculated from the minimum requirement in table
5.9BB.1 or the applicable additional requirement in Tables 5.9BB.1A,
5.9BB.1B or 5.9BB.1C, whichever is the tighter requirement.

Table 5.9BB.1A: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands II, IV, X
and XXV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band II, IV, X   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                                  30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   4.0MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.0 MHz                                       -13 dBm                                  1 MHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9BB.1B: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands V and XXVI

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band V   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                        

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                          30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   3.55MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                          100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                         
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9BB.1C: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands XII, XIII,
XIV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band XII, XIII, XIV   Measurement bandwidth
  (Note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                     

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 2.6 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 2.585MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       30 kHz

  2.6 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.45 MHz                                                                                  2.65MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                      
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------

NOTE: As a general rule, the resolution bandwidth of the measuring
equipment should be equal to the measurement bandwidth specified in
tables 5.9BB.1, 5.9BB.1A, 5.9BB.1B and 5.9BB.1C. However, to improve
measurement accuracy, sensitivity and efficiency, the resolution
bandwidth may be smaller than the measurement bandwidth. When the
resolution bandwidth is smaller than the measurement bandwidth, the
result should be integrated over the measurement bandwidth in order to
obtain the equivalent noise bandwidth of the measurement bandwidth.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\]
clause 6.6.2.1C.

### 5.9BB.3 Test purpose

To verify that the power of UE emission for UL CLTD activation state 1
does not exceed the prescribed limits shown in table 5.9BB.1. even in
the presence of the E-DCH. (see note). This is applicable for all values
of *β~c\ ~*, *β~d\ ~*,* β~hs~*, *β~ec\ ~*and *β~ed\ ~*as specified
in \[5\]. The maximum output power with HS-DPCCH and/or E-DCH is
specified in table 5.2B.1.

Excess emission increases the interference to other channels or to other
systems.

NOTE: For a static signal, the measurement with a 1MHz filter can be
replaced by a narrower filter and integration over the bandwidth. (Note
6 in table 5.9BB.1) For a non static signal the above described
replacement gives different results, depending on the type of dynamic in
the signal and depending on the bandwidth of the filter. Hence the
signal is tested only when static.

### 5.9BB.4 Method of test

#### 5.9BB.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK) are specified in Annex C, clauses C.11.1A
and C.8.1.1..

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.19 with the
exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages as given in Tables
5.2B.1A, 5.2B.2, 5.2B3, 5.2B.3A and 5.2B.4. These exceptions allow the
beta values to be set according to table C.11.1A.4 and each UL physical
channel to be at constant power during the measurement. RF parameters
are set up according to table E.5A.1. Settings for the serving cell are
defined in table 5.9BB.2.

4\) For sub-test 1 to 4, enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping
back both the 12.2kbps RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH according to procedure
7.3.9.3.1 in TS 34.108 \[3\] and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.9BB.2: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of\
Spectrum Emission Mask with E-DCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.9BB.4.1                |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

#### 5.9BB.4.2 Procedure

> 1\) For sub-test 1 to 4, set UE to maximum output power according to
> 5.2B.4.2.1 steps 1 to 8.
>
> 2\) When UE has reached the maximum power, measure the power of the
> transmitted signal with a measurement filter of bandwidths according
> to table 5.9BB.3 and 5.9BB.3A, 5.9BB.3B, 5.9BB.3C if applicable. For
> measurements using 1 MHz or 100 KHz measurement bandwidths the result
> may be calculated by integrating multiple 50 kHz or narrower filter
> (≥3kHz) measurements. The characteristic of the filter shall be
> approximately Gaussian (typical spectrum analyzer filter). The centre
> frequency of the filter shall be stepped in contiguous steps according
> to table 5.9BB.3 and 5.9BB.3A, 5.9BB.3B 5.9BB.3C if applicable. The
> measured power shall be recorded for each step. The measurement
> duration with the filter on one frequency shall last at least the
> filter settling time and the measurement period shall be inside the
> HS-DPCCH on-period.
>
> 3\) Measure the RRC filtered mean power centred on the assigned
> channel frequency.
>
> 4\) Calculate the ratio of the power 2) with respect to 3) in dBc.

5\) Repeat steps 1-4 for all the different combinations of beta values
as given in table C.11.1A.4.

### 5.9BB.5 Test requirements

The result of clause 5.9BB.4.2 step 4) shall fulfil the requirements of
table 5.9BB.3.

For operation in band II, IV, V, X, XII, XIII, XIV, XXV and XXVI both
minimum requirement in table 5.9BB.3 and the applicable additional
requirement in Tables 5.9BB.3A, 5.9BB.3B or 5.9BB.3C need to be
satisfied.

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL CLTD activation
state 1, the spectrum emission mask requirements apply at each transmit
antenna connector.

Table 5.9BB.3: Spectrum Emission Mask Requirement

+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| Δf in MHz\       | Minimum          | Measurement      |          |
| (Note 1)         | requirement      | bandwidth        |          |
|                  | (Note 2)         |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
|                  | Relative         | Absolute         |          |
|                  | requirement      | requirement      |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 2.5 - 3.5        | ![]              | -69.6 dBm        | 30 kHz\  |
|                  | (media/image34.w |                  | (Note 3) |
|                  | mf){width="1.915 |                  |          |
|                  | 9722222222222in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.4479   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666667in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 3.5 - 7.5        | ![]              | -54.3 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image35.w |                  | (Note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="1.843 |                  |          |
|                  | 0555555555554in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5104   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666666in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 7.5 - 8.5        | ![]              | -54.3 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image36.w |                  | (Note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="1.915 |                  |          |
|                  | 9722222222222in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.4479   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666667in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 8.5 - 12.5 MHz   | -47.5 dBc        | -54.3 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  |                  |                  | (Note 4) |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| NOTE 1: ∆f is    |                  |                  |          |
| the separation   |                  |                  |          |
| between the      |                  |                  |          |
| carrier          |                  |                  |          |
| frequency and    |                  |                  |          |
| the centre of    |                  |                  |          |
| the measurement  |                  |                  |          |
| bandwidth.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 2: The      |                  |                  |          |
| minimum          |                  |                  |          |
| requirement is   |                  |                  |          |
| calculated from  |                  |                  |          |
| the relative     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement or   |                  |                  |          |
| the absolute     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement,     |                  |                  |          |
| whichever is the |                  |                  |          |
| higher power.    |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 3: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 30 kHz filter is |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 2.515 MHz and    |                  |                  |          |
| 3.485 MHz.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 4: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 1 MHz filter is  |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 4 MHz and        |                  |                  |          |
| 12 MHz.          |                  |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+

Table 5.9BB.3A: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands II, IV, X
and XXV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band II, IV, X   Measurement bandwidth
  (Note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                                  30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   4.0MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.0 MHz                                       -13 dBm                                  1 MHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9BB.3B: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands V and XXVI

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band V   Measurement bandwidth
  (Note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                        

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                          30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   3.55MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                          100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                         
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9BB.3C: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands XII, XIII
and XIV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band XII, XIII, XIV   Measurement bandwidth
  (Note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                     

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 2.6 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 2.585MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       30 kHz

  2.6 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.45 MHz                                                                                  2.65MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                      
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.9BC Spectrum Emission Mask with E-DCH for UL CLTD activation state 2 and 3
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.9BC.1 Definition and applicability

The spectrum emission mask of the UE applies to frequencies, which are
between 2.5 MHz and 12.5 MHz away from the UE centre carrier frequency.
The out of channel emission is specified relative to the RRC filtered
mean power of the UE carrier.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL CLTD with HSDPA and
E-DCH.

### 5.9BC.2 Minimum Requirements

The power of any UE emission shall not exceed the levels specified in
table 5.9BC.1. The absolute requirement is based on a -50 dBm/3.84 MHz
minimum power threshold for the UE. This limit is expressed for the
narrower measurement bandwidths as -55.8 dBm/1 MHz and -71.1 dBm/30 kHz.
This is applicable for all values of *β~c\ ~*, *β~d~*,* β~hs~*,
*β~ec\ ~*and *β~ed\ ~*as specified in \[5\].

For UE configured in UL CLTD activation state 2 or activation state 3,
the spectrum emission mask requirements apply at the active transmit
antenna connector.

Table 5.9BC.1: Spectrum Emission Mask Requirement

+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| Δf in MHz\       | Minimum          | Measurement      |          |
| (note 1)         | requirement      | bandwidth        |          |
|                  | (note 2)         |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
|                  | Relative         | Absolute         |          |
|                  | requirement      | requirement      |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 2.5 - 3.5        | ![](             | -71.1 dBm        | 30 kHz\  |
|                  | media/image31.wm |                  | (note 3) |
|                  | f){width="2.0in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5in"}  |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 3.5 - 7.5        | ![]              | -55.8 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image32.w |                  | (note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="1.999 |                  |          |
|                  | 3055555555554in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5263   |                  |          |
|                  | 888888888889in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 7.5 - 8.5        | ![]              | -55.8 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image33.w |                  | (note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="2.019 |                  |          |
|                  | 4444444444444in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5104   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666666in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 8.5 - 12.5 MHz   | -49 dBc          | -55.8 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  |                  |                  | (note 4) |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| NOTE 1: ∆f is    |                  |                  |          |
| the separation   |                  |                  |          |
| between the      |                  |                  |          |
| carrier          |                  |                  |          |
| frequency and    |                  |                  |          |
| the centre of    |                  |                  |          |
| the measurement  |                  |                  |          |
| bandwidth.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 2: The      |                  |                  |          |
| minimum          |                  |                  |          |
| requirement is   |                  |                  |          |
| calculated from  |                  |                  |          |
| the relative     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement or   |                  |                  |          |
| the absolute     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement,     |                  |                  |          |
| whichever is the |                  |                  |          |
| higher power.    |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 3: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 30 kHz filter is |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 2.515 MHz and    |                  |                  |          |
| 3.485 MHz.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 4: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 1 MHz filter is  |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 4 MHz and        |                  |                  |          |
| 12 MHz.          |                  |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+

For operation in band II, IV, V, X, XII, XIII, XIV, XXV and XXVI the
minimum requirement is calculated from the minimum requirement in table
5.9BC.1 or the applicable additional requirement in Tables 5.9BC.1A,
5.9BC.1B or 5.9BC.1C, whichever is the tighter requirement.

Table 5.9BC.1A: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands II, IV, X
and XXV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band II, IV, X   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                                  30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   4.0MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.0 MHz                                       -13 dBm                                  1 MHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9BC.1B: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands V and XXVI

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band V   Measurement bandwidth
  (note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                        

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                          30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   3.55MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                          100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                         
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9BC.1C: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands XII, XIII,
XIV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band XII, XIII, XIV   Measurement bandwidth
  (Note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                     

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 2.6 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 2.585MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       30 kHz

  2.6 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.45 MHz                                                                                  2.65MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                      
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------

NOTE: As a general rule, the resolution bandwidth of the measuring
equipment should be equal to the measurement bandwidth specified in
tables 5.9BC.1, 5.9BC.1A, 5.9BC.1B and 5.9BC.1C. However, to improve
measurement accuracy, sensitivity and efficiency, the resolution
bandwidth may be smaller than the measurement bandwidth. When the
resolution bandwidth is smaller than the measurement bandwidth, the
result should be integrated over the measurement bandwidth in order to
obtain the equivalent noise bandwidth of the measurement bandwidth.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\]
clause 6.6.2.1C.

### 5.9BC.3 Test purpose

To verify that the power of UE emission for UL CLTD activation state 2
and 3 does not exceed the prescribed limits shown in table 5.9BC.1. even
in the presence of the E-DCH. (see note). This is applicable for all
values of *β~c\ ~*, *β~d\ ~*,* β~hs~*, *β~ec\ ~*and *β~ed\ ~*as
specified in \[5\]. The maximum output power with HS-DPCCH and/or E-DCH
is specified in table 5.2B.1.

Excess emission increases the interference to other channels or to other
systems.

NOTE: For a static signal, the measurement with a 1MHz filter can be
replaced by a narrower filter and integration over the bandwidth. (Note
6 in table 5.9BC.1) For a non static signal the above described
replacement gives different results, depending on the type of dynamic in
the signal and depending on the bandwidth of the filter. Hence the
signal is tested only when static.

### 5.9BC.4 Method of test

#### 5.9BC.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK) are specified in Annex C, clauses C.11.1
and C.8.1.1.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.19 with the
exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages as given in Tables
5.2B.1A, 5.2B.2, 5.2B3, 5.2B.3A, 5.2B.4 and 5.9BC.2A. These exceptions
allows the beta values to be set according to table C.11.1.3, each UL
physical channel to be at constant power during the measurement and
allow the call to be setup with initial UL CLTD activation state as
state 2. RF parameters are set up according to table E.5A.1. Settings
for the serving cell are defined in table 5.9BC.2.

4\) For sub-test 1 to 4, enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping
back both the 12.2kbps RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH according to procedure
7.3.9.3.1 in TS 34.108 \[3\] and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.9BC.2: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of\
Spectrum Emission Mask with E-DCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.9BC.4.1                |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

Table 5.9BC.2A: Contents of Radio bearer setup message

  ---------------------------------- -------------- ---------
  Information Element                Value/remark   Version
  Uplink CLTD info FDD                              Rel-11
  \- CHOICE *Mode*                   New            
  \- Initial CLTD activation state   Second state   
  ---------------------------------- -------------- ---------

#### 5.9BC.4.2 Procedure

> 1\) For sub-test 1 to 4, set UE to maximum output power according to
> 5.2B.4.2.1 steps 1 to 8.
>
> 2\) When UE has reached the maximum power, measure the power of the
> transmitted signal with a measurement filter of bandwidths according
> to table 5.9BC.3 and 5.9BC.3A, 5.9BC.3B, 5.9BC.3C if applicable. For
> measurements using 1 MHz or 100 KHz measurement bandwidths the result
> may be calculated by integrating multiple 50 kHz or narrower filter
> (≥3kHz) measurements. The characteristic of the filter shall be
> approximately Gaussian (typical spectrum analyzer filter). The centre
> frequency of the filter shall be stepped in contiguous steps according
> to table 5.9BC.3 and 5.9BC.3A, 5.9BC.3B 5.9BC.3C if applicable. The
> measured power shall be recorded for each step. The measurement
> duration with the filter on one frequency shall last at least the
> filter settling time and the measurement period shall be inside the
> HS-DPCCH on-period.
>
> 3\) Measure the RRC filtered mean power centred on the assigned
> channel frequency.
>
> 4\) Calculate the ratio of the power 2) with respect to 3) in dBc.

5\) Repeat steps 1-4 for all the different combinations of beta values
as given in table C.11.1.3.

> 6\) SS sends a HS-SCCH order now to move the UE in UL\_CLTD activation
> state 3.
>
> 7\) Repeat step 1 to 5 for activation state 3

### 5.9BC.5 Test requirements

The result of clause 5.9BC4.2 step 4) shall fulfil the requirements of
table 5.9BC.3.

For operation in band II, IV, V, X, XII, XIII, XIV, XXV and XXVI both
minimum requirement in table 5.9BC.3 and the applicable additional
requirement in Tables 5.9BC.3A, 5.9BC.3B or 5.9BC.3C need to be
satisfied.

For UE configured in UL CLTD activation state 2 or activation state 3,
the spectrum emission mask requirements apply at the active transmit
antenna connector.

Table 5.9BC.3: Spectrum Emission Mask Requirement

+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| Δf in MHz\       | Minimum          | Measurement      |          |
| (Note 1)         | requirement      | bandwidth        |          |
|                  | (Note 2)         |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
|                  | Relative         | Absolute         |          |
|                  | requirement      | requirement      |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 2.5 - 3.5        | ![]              | -69.6 dBm        | 30 kHz\  |
|                  | (media/image34.w |                  | (Note 3) |
|                  | mf){width="1.915 |                  |          |
|                  | 9722222222222in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.4479   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666667in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 3.5 - 7.5        | ![]              | -54.3 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image35.w |                  | (Note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="1.843 |                  |          |
|                  | 0555555555554in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.5104   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666666in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 7.5 - 8.5        | ![]              | -54.3 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  | (media/image36.w |                  | (Note 4) |
|                  | mf){width="1.915 |                  |          |
|                  | 9722222222222in" |                  |          |
|                  | height="0.4479   |                  |          |
|                  | 166666666667in"} |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| 8.5 - 12.5 MHz   | -47.5 dBc        | -54.3 dBm        | 1 MHz\   |
|                  |                  |                  | (Note 4) |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| NOTE 1: ∆f is    |                  |                  |          |
| the separation   |                  |                  |          |
| between the      |                  |                  |          |
| carrier          |                  |                  |          |
| frequency and    |                  |                  |          |
| the centre of    |                  |                  |          |
| the measurement  |                  |                  |          |
| bandwidth.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 2: The      |                  |                  |          |
| minimum          |                  |                  |          |
| requirement is   |                  |                  |          |
| calculated from  |                  |                  |          |
| the relative     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement or   |                  |                  |          |
| the absolute     |                  |                  |          |
| requirement,     |                  |                  |          |
| whichever is the |                  |                  |          |
| higher power.    |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 3: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 30 kHz filter is |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 2.515 MHz and    |                  |                  |          |
| 3.485 MHz.       |                  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
| NOTE 4: The      |                  |                  |          |
| first and last   |                  |                  |          |
| measurement      |                  |                  |          |
| position with a  |                  |                  |          |
| 1 MHz filter is  |                  |                  |          |
| at ∆f equals to  |                  |                  |          |
| 4 MHz and        |                  |                  |          |
| 12 MHz.          |                  |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+

Table 5.9BC.3A: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands II, IV, X
and XXV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band II, IV, X   Measurement bandwidth
  (Note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                                  30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   4.0MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.0 MHz                                       -13 dBm                                  1 MHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9BC.3B: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands V and XXVI

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band V   Measurement bandwidth
  (Note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                        

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3.5 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 3.485MHz                                     -15 dBm                          30 kHz

  3.5 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.5 MHz                                                                                   3.55MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                          100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                         
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 5.9BC.3C: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands XII, XIII
and XIV

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Δf in MHz\                                                                                                Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f\_offset   Additional requirements Band XII, XIII, XIV   Measurement bandwidth
  (Note 1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                     

  2.5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 2.6 MHz                                                                                   2.515MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 2.585MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       30 kHz

  2.6 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ 12.45 MHz                                                                                  2.65MHz ≤ f\_offset \< 12.45 MHz                                     -13 dBm                                       100 kHz

  NOTE 1: ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measurement bandwidth.                                                                                                                      
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- -----------------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.9C Additional Spectrum Emission Mask for DC-HSUPA (QPSK)
----------------------------------------------------------

### 5.9C.1 Definition and applicability

The spectrum emission mask of the UE applies to frequencies, which are
between 5 MHz and 20 MHz away from the UE centre frequency of the two
assigned channel frequencies. The requirements assume that the UE output
power shall be maximum level.

It is necessary to verify the requirements only for the DC-HSUPA
configurations specified in clause C.2.8.The requirements and this test
apply for Release 9 and later releases to all types of UTRA for the FDD
UE that support HSDPA and Dual Cell E-DCH.

### 5.9C.2 Minimum Requirements

The power of any UE emission shall not exceed the levels specified in
Table 5.9C.1 for the specified channel bandwidth.

Table 5.9C.1: Spectrum emission mask for DC-HSUPA

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Δf             | Frequency      | Spectrum       | Measurement    |
|                | offset of      | emission limit | bandwidth      |
| (MHz)          | measurement    | (dBm)          |                |
|                | filter centre  |                |                |
|                | frequency,     |                |                |
|                | f\_offset      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ± 5-6          | 5.015MHz ≤     | -18            | 30 kHz         |
|                | f\_offset \<   |                |                |
|                | 5.985MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ± 6-10         | 6.5MHz ≤       | -10            | 1 MHz          |
|                | f\_offset \<   |                |                |
|                | 10.0MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ± 10-19        | 10.0MHz ≤      | -13            | 1 MHz          |
|                | f\_offset \<   |                |                |
|                | 19.0MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ± 19-20        | 19.0MHz ≤      | -25            | 1 MHz          |
|                | f\_offset \<   |                |                |
|                | 19.5MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Note: ∆f is    |                |                |                |
| the separation |                |                |                |
| between the    |                |                |                |
| centre of two  |                |                |                |
| assigned       |                |                |                |
| channel        |                |                |                |
| frequencies    |                |                |                |
| and the centre |                |                |                |
| of the         |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| bandwidth      |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

The UE shall meet an additional requirement specified in Table 5.9C.1A
for band II, IV, V and X.

Table 5.9C.1A: Additional spectrum emission mask for\
DC-HSUPA in band II, IV, V, X, XXV and XXVI

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Δf             | Frequency      | Spectrum       | Measurement    |
|                | offset of      | emission limit | bandwidth      |
| (MHz)          | measurement    | (dBm)          |                |
|                | filter centre  |                |                |
|                | frequency,     |                |                |
|                | f\_offset      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ± 5-6          | 5.015MHz ≤     | -18            | 30 kHz         |
|                | f\_offset \<   |                |                |
|                | 5.985MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ± 6-19         | 6.5MHz ≤       | -13            | 1 MHz          |
|                | f\_offset \<   |                |                |
|                | 19.0MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ± 19-20        | 19.0MHz ≤      | -25            | 1 MHz          |
|                | f\_offset \<   |                |                |
|                | 19.5MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Note: ∆f is    |                |                |                |
| the separation |                |                |                |
| between the    |                |                |                |
| centre of two  |                |                |                |
| assigned       |                |                |                |
| channel        |                |                |                |
| frequencies    |                |                |                |
| and the centre |                |                |                |
| of the         |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| bandwidth      |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.6.2.1A

### 5.9C.3 Test purpose

To verify that the power of UE emission, during DC-HSUPA transmission,
does not exceed the prescribed limits shown in table 5.9C.1 or 5.9C.1A.
This is applicable for all values of *β~c\ ~*, *β~d\ ~* ,* β~hs~*,
*β~ec\ ~*and *β~ed\ ~* as specified in \[5\]. The maximum output power
with HS-DPCCH and/or E-DCH is specified in table 5.2BA.1.

Excess emission increases the interference to other channels or to other
systems.

NOTE: For a static signal, the measurement with a 1MHz filter can be
replaced by a narrower filter and integration over the bandwidth. For a
non static signal the above described replacement gives different
results, depending on the type of dynamic in the signal and depending on
the bandwidth of the filter. Hence the signal is tested only when
static.

### 5.9C.4 Method of test

#### 5.9C.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.41.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and parameters are specified in
Annex C.2.8 and C.11A. The DL Reference Measurement Channel (FRC H-SET
3A, QPSK) is specified in C.8.1.1.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure
specified in TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.14, with exceptions for
information elements in RADIO BEARER SETUP message as given in Table
5.2BA.2, 5.2BA.3 and 5.2BA.4. These exceptions allow the beta values to
be set according to table C.11A.1.1 and each UL physical channel to be
at constant power during the measurement. RF parameters are set up
according to E.5 A.1A. Settings for the serving cell are defined in
table 5.9C.2.

3\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

Table 5.9C.2: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of\
Spectrum Emission Mask for DC-HSUPA

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.9C.4.1                 |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

#### 5.9C.4.2 Procedure

> 1\) Set the UE to maximum output power according to 5.2BA.4.2 steps 1
> to 4.
>
> 2\) When UE has reached the maximum power, measure the power of the
> transmitted signal with a measurement filter of bandwidths according
> to table 5.9C.1 and 5.9C.1A. For measurements using 1 MHz or 100KHz
> measurement bandwidths the result may be calculated by integrating
> multiple 50 kHz or narrower filter (≥3kHz) measurements. The
> characteristic of the filter shall be approximately Gaussian (typical
> spectrum analyzer filter). The centre frequency of the filter shall be
> stepped in contiguous steps according to table 5.9C.1 and 5.9C.1A. The
> measured power shall be recorded for each step. The measurement
> duration with the filter on one frequency shall last at least the
> filter settling time and the measurement period shall be inside the
> HS-DPCCH on-period.

3\) Repeat steps 1-2 for all the different combinations of UL E-DCH
reference measurement channels and of beta values as given in clause
C.2.8 and table C.11A.1.1.

4\) Repeat steps 1-3 for all the different configurations given in table
5.2BA.5A

### 5.9C.5 Test requirements

The result of clause 5.9C.4.2 step 2) shall fulfil the requirements of
table 5.9C.3.

For operation in band II, IV, V and X both minimum requirement in table
5.9C.3 and the applicable additional requirement in Tables  5.9C.3A need
to be satisfied.

Table 5.9C.3: Spectrum Emission Mask Requirement

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Δf             | Frequency      | Spectrum       | Measurement    |
|                | offset of      | emission limit | bandwidth      |
| (MHz)          | measurement    | (dBm)          |                |
|                | filter centre  |                |                |
|                | frequency,     |                |                |
|                | f\_offset      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ± 5-6          | 5.015MHz ≤     | -16.5          | 30 kHz         |
|                | f\_offset \<   |                |                |
|                | 5.985MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ± 6-10         | 6.5MHz ≤       | -8.5           | 1 MHz          |
|                | f\_offset \<   |                |                |
|                | 10.0MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ± 10-19        | 10.0MHz ≤      | -11.5          | 1 MHz          |
|                | f\_offset \<   |                |                |
|                | 19.0MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ± 19-20        | 19.0MHz ≤      | -23.5          | 1 MHz          |
|                | f\_offset \<   |                |                |
|                | 19.5MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Note: ∆f is    |                |                |                |
| the separation |                |                |                |
| between the    |                |                |                |
| centre of two  |                |                |                |
| assigned       |                |                |                |
| channel        |                |                |                |
| frequencies    |                |                |                |
| and the centre |                |                |                |
| of the         |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| bandwidth      |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

Table 5.9C.3A: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands II, IV, V,
X, XXV and XXVI

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Δf             | Frequency      | Spectrum       | Measurement    |
|                | offset of      | emission limit | bandwidth      |
| (MHz)          | measurement    | (dBm)          |                |
|                | filter centre  |                |                |
|                | frequency,     |                |                |
|                | f\_offset      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ± 5-6          | 5.015MHz ≤     | -18            | 30 kHz         |
|                | f\_offset \<   |                |                |
|                | 5.985MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ± 6-19         | 6.5MHz ≤       | -13            | 1 MHz          |
|                | f\_offset \<   |                |                |
|                | 19.0MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ± 19-20        | 19.0MHz ≤      | -25            | 1 MHz          |
|                | f\_offset \<   |                |                |
|                | 19.5MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Note: ∆f is    |                |                |                |
| the separation |                |                |                |
| between the    |                |                |                |
| centre of two  |                |                |                |
| assigned       |                |                |                |
| channel        |                |                |                |
| frequencies    |                |                |                |
| and the centre |                |                |                |
| of the         |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| bandwidth      |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.9D Additional Spectrum Emission Mask for DC-HSUPA (16QAM)
-----------------------------------------------------------

### 5.9D.1 Definition and applicability

The spectrum emission mask of the UE applies to frequencies, which are
between 5 MHz and 20 MHz away from the UE centre frequency of the two
assigned channel frequencies. The requirements assume that the UE output
power shall be maximum level.

It is necessary to verify the requirements only for the DC-HSUPA
configurations specified in subclause C.2.8.The requirements and this
test apply for Release 9 and later releases to all types of UTRA for the
FDD UE that support HSDPA and Dual Cell E-DCH 16QAM UE capability
category 9.

### 5.9D.2 Minimum Requirements

The power of any UE emission shall not exceed the levels specified in
Table 5.9D.1 for the specified channel bandwidth.

Table 5.9D.1: Spectrum emission mask for DC-HSUPA

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Δf             | Frequency      | Spectrum       | Measurement    |
|                | offset of      | emission limit | bandwidth      |
| (MHz)          | measurement    | (dBm)          |                |
|                | filter centre  |                |                |
|                | frequency,     |                |                |
|                | f\_offset      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ± 5-6          | 5.015MHz ≤     | -18            | 30 kHz         |
|                | f\_offset \<   |                |                |
|                | 5.985MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ± 6-10         | 6.5MHz ≤       | -10            | 1 MHz          |
|                | f\_offset \<   |                |                |
|                | 10.0MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ± 10-19        | 10.0MHz ≤      | -13            | 1 MHz          |
|                | f\_offset \<   |                |                |
|                | 19.0MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ± 19-20        | 19.0MHz ≤      | -25            | 1 MHz          |
|                | f\_offset \<   |                |                |
|                | 19.5MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Note: ∆f is    |                |                |                |
| the separation |                |                |                |
| between the    |                |                |                |
| centre of two  |                |                |                |
| assigned       |                |                |                |
| channel        |                |                |                |
| frequencies    |                |                |                |
| and the centre |                |                |                |
| of the         |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| bandwidth      |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

The UE shall meet an additional requirement specified in Table 5.9D.1A
for band II, IV, V and X.

Table 5.9D.1A: Additional spectrum emission mask for\
DC-HSUPA in band II, IV, V, X, XXV and XXVI

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Δf             | Frequency      | Spectrum       | Measurement    |
|                | offset of      | emission limit | bandwidth      |
| (MHz)          | measurement    | (dBm)          |                |
|                | filter centre  |                |                |
|                | frequency,     |                |                |
|                | f\_offset      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ± 5-6          | 5.015MHz ≤     | -18            | 30 kHz         |
|                | f\_offset \<   |                |                |
|                | 5.985MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ± 6-19         | 6.5MHz ≤       | -13            | 1 MHz          |
|                | f\_offset \<   |                |                |
|                | 19.0MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ± 19-20        | 19.0MHz ≤      | -25            | 1 MHz          |
|                | f\_offset \<   |                |                |
|                | 19.5MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Note: ∆f is    |                |                |                |
| the separation |                |                |                |
| between the    |                |                |                |
| centre of two  |                |                |                |
| assigned       |                |                |                |
| channel        |                |                |                |
| frequencies    |                |                |                |
| and the centre |                |                |                |
| of the         |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| bandwidth      |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.6.2.1A

### 5.9D.3 Test purpose

To verify that the power of UE emission, during DC-HSUPA transmission,
does not exceed the prescribed limits shown in table 5.9D.1 or 5.9D.1A.
This is applicable for all values of *β~c\ ~*, *β~d\ ~* ,* β~hs~*,
*β~ec\ ~*and *β~ed\ ~* as specified in \[5\]. The maximum output power
with HS-DPCCH and/or E-DCH is specified in table 5.2BA.1.

Excess emission increases the interference to other channels or to other
systems.

NOTE: For a static signal, the measurement with a 1MHz filter can be
replaced by a narrower filter and integration over the bandwidth. For a
non static signal the above described replacement gives different
results, depending on the type of dynamic in the signal and depending on
the bandwidth of the filter. Hence the signal is tested only when
static.

### 5.9D.4 Method of test

#### 5.9D.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.41.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and parameters are specified in
Annex C.2.8 and C.11A. The DL Reference Measurement Channel (FRC H-SET
3A, QPSK) is specified in C.8.1.1.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure
specified in TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.14, with exceptions for
information elements in RADIO BEARER SETUP message as given in Table
5.2BA.2, 5.2BA.3 and 5.2BA.4. These exceptions allow the beta values to
be set according to table C.11A.1.1 and each UL physical channel to be
at constant power during the measurement. RF parameters are set up
according to E.5 A.1A. Settings for the serving cell are defined in
table 5.9D.2.

3\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

Table 5.9D.2: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of\
Spectrum Emission Mask for DC-HSUPA

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.9D.4.1                 |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

#### 5.9D.4.2 Procedure

> 1\) Set the UE to maximum output power according to 5.2BA.4.2 steps 1
> to 4.
>
> 2\) When UE has reached the maximum power, measure the power of the
> transmitted signal with a measurement filter of bandwidths according
> to table 5.9D.1 and 5.9D.1A. For measurements using 1 MHz or 100KHz
> measurement bandwidths the result may be calculated by integrating
> multiple 50 kHz or narrower filter (≥3kHz) measurements. The
> characteristic of the filter shall be approximately Gaussian (typical
> spectrum analyzer filter). The centre frequency of the filter shall be
> stepped in contiguous steps according to table 5.9D.1 and 5.9D.1A. The
> measured power shall be recorded for each step. The measurement
> duration with the filter on one frequency shall last at least the
> filter settling time and the measurement period shall be inside the
> HS-DPCCH on-period.

3\) Repeat steps 1-2 for all the different combinations of UL E-DCH
reference measurement channels and of beta values as given in clause
C.2.8 and table C.11A.1.2.

4\) Repeat steps 1-3 for all the different configurations given in table
5.2BB.5.

### 5.9D.5 Test requirements

The result of clause 5.9D.4.2 step 2) shall fulfil the requirements of
table 5.9D.3.

For operation in band II, IV, V and X both minimum requirement in table
5.9D.3 and the applicable additional requirement in Tables  5.9D.3A need
to be satisfied.

Table 5.9D.3: Spectrum Emission Mask Requirement

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Δf             | Frequency      | Spectrum       | Measurement    |
|                | offset of      | emission limit | bandwidth      |
| (MHz)          | measurement    | (dBm)          |                |
|                | filter centre  |                |                |
|                | frequency,     |                |                |
|                | f\_offset      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ± 5-6          | 5.015MHz ≤     | -16.5          | 30 kHz         |
|                | f\_offset \<   |                |                |
|                | 5.985MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ± 6-10         | 6.5MHz ≤       | -8.5           | 1 MHz          |
|                | f\_offset \<   |                |                |
|                | 10.0MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ± 10-19        | 10.0MHz ≤      | -11.5          | 1 MHz          |
|                | f\_offset \<   |                |                |
|                | 19.0MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ± 19-20        | 19.0MHz ≤      | -23.5          | 1 MHz          |
|                | f\_offset \<   |                |                |
|                | 19.5MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Note: ∆f is    |                |                |                |
| the separation |                |                |                |
| between the    |                |                |                |
| centre of two  |                |                |                |
| assigned       |                |                |                |
| channel        |                |                |                |
| frequencies    |                |                |                |
| and the centre |                |                |                |
| of the         |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| bandwidth      |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

Table 5.9D.3A: Additional spectrum emission limits for Bands II, IV, V,
X, XXV and XXVI

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Δf             | Frequency      | Spectrum       | Measurement    |
|                | offset of      | emission limit | bandwidth      |
| (MHz)          | measurement    | (dBm)          |                |
|                | filter centre  |                |                |
|                | frequency,     |                |                |
|                | f\_offset      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ± 5-6          | 5.015MHz ≤     | -18            | 30 kHz         |
|                | f\_offset \<   |                |                |
|                | 5.985MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ± 6-19         | 6.5MHz ≤       | -13            | 1 MHz          |
|                | f\_offset \<   |                |                |
|                | 19.0MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| ± 19-20        | 19.0MHz ≤      | -25            | 1 MHz          |
|                | f\_offset \<   |                |                |
|                | 19.5MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Note: ∆f is    |                |                |                |
| the separation |                |                |                |
| between the    |                |                |                |
| centre of two  |                |                |                |
| assigned       |                |                |                |
| channel        |                |                |                |
| frequencies    |                |                |                |
| and the centre |                |                |                |
| of the         |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| bandwidth      |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.10 Adjacent Channel Leakage Power Ratio (ACLR)
------------------------------------------------

### 5.10.1 Definition and applicability

ACLR is the ratio of the RRC filtered mean power centred on the assigned
channel frequency to the RRC filtered mean power centred on an adjacent
channel frequency.

The requirements and this test apply to all types of UTRA for the FDD
UE.

### 5.10.2 Minimum Requirements

If the adjacent channel RRC filtered mean power is greater than −50dBm
then the ACLR shall be higher than the value specified in table 5.10.1.

Table 5.10.1: UE ACLR

  ------------- -------------------- ------------
  Power Class   UE channel           ACLR limit
  3             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     33 dB
  3             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   43 dB
  4             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     33 dB
  4             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   43 dB
  ------------- -------------------- ------------

NOTE 1: The requirement shall still be met in the presence of switching
transients.

NOTE 2: The ACLR requirements reflect what can be achieved with present
state of the art technology.

NOTE 3: Requirement on the UE shall be reconsidered when the state of
the art technology progresses.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.6.2.2.1.

### 5.10.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE ACLR does not exceed prescribed limit shown in
table 5.10.1.

Excess ACLR increases the interference to other channels or to other
systems.

### 5.10.4 Method of test

##### 5.10.4.1 Initial conditions {#initial-conditions-12 .H6}

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.1.

2\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure in
TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.2.

3\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 5.10.4.2 Procedure {#procedure-12 .H6}

1\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE until
the UE output power shall be maximum level.

2\) Measure the RRC filtered mean power.

3\) Measure the RRC filtered mean power of the first adjacent channels
and the second adjacent channels.

4\) Calculate the ratio of the power between the values measured in
\'2)\'and \'3)\'.

### 5.10.5 Test requirements

If the measured adjacent channel RRC filtered mean power, derived in
step 3), is greater than −50,0 dBm then the measured ACLR, derived in
step 4), shall be higher than the limit in table 5.10.2.

Table 5.10.2: UE ACLR

  ------------- -------------------- ------------
  Power Class   UE channel           ACLR limit
  3             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     32,2 dB
  3             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   42,2 dB
  4             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     32,2 dB
  4             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   42,2 dB
  ------------- -------------------- ------------

NOTE 1: The requirement shall still be met in the presence of switching
transients.

NOTE 2: The ACLR requirements reflect what can be achieved with present
state of the art technology.

NOTE 3: Requirement on the UE shall be reconsidered when the state of
the art technology progresses.

NOTE 4: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

5.10A Adjacent Channel Leakage Power Ratio (ACLR) with HS-DPCCH
---------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.10A.1 Definition and applicability

ACLR is the ratio of the RRC filtered mean power centred on the assigned
channel frequency to the RRC filtered mean power centred on an adjacent
channel frequency.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 5 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA.

### 5.10A.2 Minimum Requirements

If the adjacent channel RRC filtered mean power is greater than −50dBm
then the ACLR shall be higher than the value specified in table 5.10A.1.
This is applicable for all values
of![](media/image12.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.25in"},![](media/image13.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in"
height="0.25in"}and![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.25in"
height="0.25in"} as specified in \[5\].

Table 5.10A.1: UE ACLR

  ------------- -------------------- ------------
  Power Class   UE channel           ACLR limit
  3             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     33 dB
  3             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   43 dB
  4             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     33 dB
  4             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   43 dB
  ------------- -------------------- ------------

NOTE 1: The requirement shall still be met in the presence of switching
transients.

NOTE 2: The ACLR requirements reflect what can be achieved with present
state of the art technology.

NOTE 3: Requirement on the UE shall be reconsidered when the state of
the art technology progresses.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.6.2.2.1.

### 5.10A.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE ACLR does not exceed prescribed limit shown in
table 5.10A.1. This is applicable for all values
of![](media/image12.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.25in"},![](media/image13.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in"
height="0.25in"}and![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.25in"
height="0.25in"} as specified in \[5\]. The maximum output power with
HS-DPCCH is specified in table 5.2A.1.

Excess ACLR increases the interference to other channels or to other
systems.

### 5.10A.4 Method of test

##### 5.10A.4.1 Initial conditions {#a.4.1-initial-conditions-9 .H6}

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.1.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK version) are specified in Annex C.10.1 and
C.8.1.1.

3\) An HSDPA call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.6.
RF parameters are set up according to table E.5.1 and table E.5.10.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.10A.2.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

Table 5.10A.2: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of\
Adjacent Channel Leakage Power Ratio (ACLR) with HS-DPCCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.10A.4.1                |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

##### 5.10A.4.2 Procedure {#a.4.2-procedure-9 .H6}

1\) Send TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to set the beta
values according to table C.10.1.4 and the DPCH frame offset according
the HS-DPCCH slot offset required for measurements.

2\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE.

3\) Start transmitting HSDPA Data.

4\) When UE has reached the maximum power, measure the RRC filtered mean
power on the wanted channel. The measurement period shall be inside the
HS-DPCCH on-period for the wanted and the adjacent channels.

5\) Measure the RRC filtered mean power of the first adjacent channels
and the second adjacent channels.

6\) Calculate the ratio of the power between the values measured in step
4) and step 5).

7\) Repeat steps 1-6 for all the different combinations of beta values
as given in table C.10.1.4.

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9 of TS 34.108 \[3\], except the
TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message which is defined in Annex I.

### 5.10A.5 Test requirements

The measured ACLR, derived in step 6), shall be higher than the limit in
table 5.10A.3.

Table 5.10A.3: UE ACLR

  ------------- -------------------- ------------
  Power Class   UE channel           ACLR limit
  3             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     32.2 dB
  3             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   42.2 dB
  4             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     32.2 dB
  4             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   42.2 dB
  ------------- -------------------- ------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.10AA Adjacent Channel Leakage Power Ratio (ACLR) with HS-DPCCH for OLTD
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.10AA.1 Definition and applicability

ACLR is the ratio of the RRC filtered mean power centred on the assigned
channel frequency to the RRC filtered mean power centred on an adjacent
channel frequency.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 5 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support UL OLTD and HSDPA.

### 5.10AA.2 Minimum Requirements

If the adjacent channel RRC filtered mean power is greater than −50dBm
then the ACLR shall be higher than the value specified in
table 5.10AA.1. This is applicable for all values
of![](media/image12.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.25in"},![](media/image13.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in"
height="0.25in"}and![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.25in"
height="0.25in"} as specified in \[5\].

Table 5.10AA.1: UE ACLR

  ------------- -------------------- ------------
  Power Class   UE channel           ACLR limit
  3             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     33 dB
  3             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   43 dB
  4             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     33 dB
  4             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   43 dB
  ------------- -------------------- ------------

NOTE 1: The requirement shall still be met in the presence of switching
transients.

NOTE 2: The ACLR requirements reflect what can be achieved with present
state of the art technology.

NOTE 3: Requirement on the UE shall be reconsidered when the state of
the art technology progresses.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.6.2.2.1B.

### 5.10AA.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE ACLR for UL OLTD does not exceed prescribed limit
shown in table 5.10AA.1. This is applicable for all values
of![](media/image12.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.25in"},![](media/image13.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in"
height="0.25in"}and![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.25in"
height="0.25in"} as specified in \[5\]. The maximum output power with
HS-DPCCH is specified in table 5.2A.1.

Excess ACLR increases the interference to other channels or to other
systems.

### 5.10AA.4 Method of test

##### 5.10AA.4.1 Initial conditions {#aa.4.1-initial-conditions-3 .H6}

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK version) are specified in Annex C.10.1 and
C.8.1.1.

3\) An HSDPA call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.18.
RF parameters are set up according to table E.5.1 and table E.5.10.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.10AA.2.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

Table 5.10AA.2: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of\
Adjacent Channel Leakage Power Ratio (ACLR) with HS-DPCCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.10AA.4.1               |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

##### 5.10AA.4.2 Procedure {#aa.4.2-procedure-3 .H6}

1\) Send TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to set the beta
values according to table C.10.2.4 and the DPCH frame offset according
the HS-DPCCH slot offset required for measurements.

2\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE.

3\) Start transmitting HSDPA Data.

4\) When UE has reached the maximum power, measure the RRC filtered mean
power on the wanted channel. The measurement period shall be inside the
HS-DPCCH on-period for the wanted and the adjacent channels.

5\) Measure the RRC filtered mean power of the first adjacent channels
and the second adjacent channels.

6\) Calculate the ratio of the power between the values measured in step
4) and step 5).

7\) Repeat steps 1-6 for all the different combinations of beta values
as given in table C.10.2.4.

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9 of TS 34.108 \[3\], except the
TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message which is defined in Annex I.

### 5.10AA.5 Test requirements

The measured ACLR, derived in step 6), shall be higher than the limit in
table 5.10AA.3.

Table 5.10AA.3: UE ACLR

  ------------- -------------------- ------------
  Power Class   UE channel           ACLR limit
  3             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     32.2 dB
  3             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   42.2 dB
  4             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     32.2 dB
  4             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   42.2 dB
  ------------- -------------------- ------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.10AB Adjacent Channel Leakage Power Ratio (ACLR) with HS-DPCCH for UL CLTD Activation state 1
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.10AB.1 Definition and applicability

ACLR is the ratio of the RRC filtered mean power centred on the assigned
channel frequency to the RRC filtered mean power centred on an adjacent
channel frequency.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL CLTD and HSDPA.

### 5.10AB.2 Minimum Requirements

If the adjacent channel RRC filtered mean power is greater than −50dBm
then the ACLR shall be higher than the value specified in
table 5.10AB.1. This is applicable for all values
of![](media/image12.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.25in"},![](media/image13.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in"
height="0.25in"}, and![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.25in"
height="0.25in"} as specified in \[5\].

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL CLTD activation
state 1, the ACLR requirements apply at each transmit antenna connector.

Table 5.10AB.1: UE ACLR

  ------------- -------------------- ------------
  Power Class   UE channel           ACLR limit
  3             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     33 dB
  3             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   43 dB
  4             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     33 dB
  4             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   43 dB
  ------------- -------------------- ------------

NOTE 1: The requirement shall still be met in the presence of switching
transients.

NOTE 2: The ACLR requirements reflect what can be achieved with present
state of the art technology.

NOTE 3: Requirement on the UE shall be reconsidered when the state of
the art technology progresses.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.6.2.2.1C.

### 5.10AB.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE ACLR for UL CLTD activation state 1 does not
exceed prescribed limit shown in table 5.10AB.1. This is applicable for
all values of![](media/image12.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.25in"},![](media/image13.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in"
height="0.25in"}and![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.25in"
height="0.25in"} as specified in \[5\]. The maximum output power with
HS-DPCCH is specified in table 5.2A.1.

Excess ACLR increases the interference to other channels or to other
systems.

### 5.10AB.4 Method of test

#### 5.10AB.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK version) are specified in Annex C, clauses
C.10.2 and C.8.1.1.

3\) An HSDPA call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.17.
RF parameters are set up according to table E.5.1 and table E.5.10.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.10AB.2.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

Table 5.10AB.2: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of\
Adjacent Channel Leakage Power Ratio (ACLR) with HS-DPCCH for UL CLTD

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.10AB.4.1               |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

#### 5.10AB.4.2 Procedure

1\) Send TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to set the beta
values according to table C.10.2.4 and the DPCH frame offset according
the HS-DPCCH slot offset required for measurements.

2\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE.

3\) Start transmitting HSDPA Data.

4\) When UE has reached the maximum power measure the RRC filtered mean
power on the wanted channel at each transmits antenna connector. The
measurement period shall be inside the HS-DPCCH on-period for the wanted
and the adjacent channels.

5\) Measure the RRC filtered mean power of the first adjacent channels
and the second adjacent channels at each transmit antenna connector.

6\) Calculate the ratio of the power between the values measured in step
4) and step 5).

7\) Repeat steps 1-6 for all the different combinations of beta values
as given in table C.10.2.4.

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9 of TS 34.108 \[3\], except the
TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message which is defined in Annex I.

### 5.10AB.5 Test requirements

The measured ACLR, derived in step 6), shall be higher than the limit in
table 5.10AB.3.

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL CLTD activation
state 1, the ACLR requirements apply at each transmit antenna connector.

Table 5.10AB.3: UE ACLR

  ------------- -------------------- ------------
  Power Class   UE channel           ACLR limit
  3             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     32.2 dB
  3             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   42.2 dB
  4             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     32.2 dB
  4             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   42.2 dB
  ------------- -------------------- ------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.10AC Adjacent Channel Leakage Power Ratio (ACLR) with HS-DPCCH for UL CLTD Activation state 2 and 3
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.10AC.1 Definition and applicability

ACLR is the ratio of the RRC filtered mean power centred on the assigned
channel frequency to the RRC filtered mean power centred on an adjacent
channel frequency.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL CLTD and HSDPA.

### 5.10AC.2 Minimum Requirements

If the adjacent channel RRC filtered mean power is greater than −50dBm
then the ACLR shall be higher than the value specified in
table 5.10AC.1. This is applicable for all values
of![](media/image12.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.25in"},![](media/image13.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in"
height="0.25in"}and![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.25in"
height="0.25in"} as specified in \[5\].

For UE configured in UL CLTD activation state 2 or activation state 3,
the ACLR requirements apply at the active transmit antenna connector.

Table 5.10AC.1: UE ACLR

  ------------- -------------------- ------------
  Power Class   UE channel           ACLR limit
  3             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     33 dB
  3             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   43 dB
  4             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     33 dB
  4             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   43 dB
  ------------- -------------------- ------------

NOTE 1: The requirement shall still be met in the presence of switching
transients.

NOTE 2: The ACLR requirements reflect what can be achieved with present
state of the art technology.

NOTE 3: Requirement on the UE shall be reconsidered when the state of
the art technology progresses.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.6.2.2.1C.

### 5.10AC.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE ACLR for UL CLTD activation state 2 and 3 does not
exceed prescribed limit shown in table 5.10AC.1. This is applicable for
all values of![](media/image12.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.25in"},![](media/image13.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in"
height="0.25in"}and![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.25in"
height="0.25in"} as specified in \[5\]. The maximum output power with
HS-DPCCH is specified in table 5.2A.1.

Excess ACLR increases the interference to other channels or to other
systems.

### 5.10AC.4 Method of test

#### 5.10AC.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK version) are specified in Annex C, clauses
C.10.1 and C.8.1.1.

3\) An HSDPA call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.17
with the following exception in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages in table
5.10AC.1.1. This exception allows the call to be setup with initial UL
CLTD activation state as state 2. RF parameters are set up according to
table E.5.1 and table E.5.10. Settings for the serving cell are defined
in table 5.10AC.2.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

Table 5.10AC.1.1: Contents of Radio bearer setup message

  ---------------------------------- -------------- ---------
  Information Element                Value/remark   Version
  Uplink CLTD info FDD                              Rel-11
  \- CHOICE *Mode*                   New            
  \- Initial CLTD activation state   Second state   
  ---------------------------------- -------------- ---------

Table 5.10AC.2: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of\
Adjacent Channel Leakage Power Ratio (ACLR) with HS-DPCCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.10AC.4.1               |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

#### 5.10AC.4.2 Procedure

1\) Send TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to set the beta
values according to table C.10.1.4 and the DPCH frame offset according
the HS-DPCCH slot offset required for measurements.

2\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE.

3\) Start transmitting HSDPA Data.

4\) When UE has reached the maximum power, measure the RRC filtered mean
power on the wanted channel at active transmit antenna connector. The
measurement period shall be inside the HS-DPCCH on-period for the wanted
and the adjacent channels.

5\) Measure the RRC filtered mean power of the first adjacent channels
and the second adjacent channels.

6\) Calculate the ratio of the power between the values measured in step
4) and step 5).

7\) Repeat steps 1-6 for all the different combinations of beta values
as given in table C.10.1.4.

> 8\) SS sends a HS-SCCH order now to move the UE in UL\_CLTD activation
> state 3.
>
> 9\) Repeat step 1 to 7 for activation state 3

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9 of TS 34.108 \[3\], except the
TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message which is defined in Annex I.

### 5.10AC.5 Test requirements

The measured ACLR, derived in step 6), shall be higher than the limit in
table 5.10AC.3.

For UE configured in UL CLTD activation state 2 and activation state 3,
the ACLR requirements apply at the active transmit antenna connector.

Table 5.10AC.3: UE ACLR

  ------------- -------------------- ------------
  Power Class   UE channel           ACLR limit
  3             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     32.2 dB
  3             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   42.2 dB
  4             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     32.2 dB
  4             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   42.2 dB
  ------------- -------------------- ------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.10B Adjacent Channel Leakage Power Ratio (ACLR) with E-DCH
------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.10B.1 Definition and applicability

ACLR is the ratio of the RRC filtered mean power centred on the assigned
channel frequency to the RRC filtered mean power centred on an adjacent
channel frequency.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 6 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA and E-DCH.

### 5.10B.2 Minimum Requirements

If the adjacent channel RRC filtered mean power is greater than −50dBm
then the ACLR shall be higher than the value specified in table 5.10B.1.
This is applicable for all values of *β~c\ ~*, *β~d\ ~* ,* β~hs~*,
*β~ec\ ~*and *β~ed\ ~* as specified in \[5\].

Table 5.10B.1: UE ACLR

  ------------- -------------------- ------------
  Power Class   UE channel           ACLR limit
  3             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     33 dB
  3             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   43 dB
  4             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     33 dB
  4             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   43 dB
  ------------- -------------------- ------------

NOTE 1: The requirement shall still be met in the presence of switching
transients.

NOTE 2: The ACLR requirements reflect what can be achieved with present
state of the art technology.

NOTE 3: Requirement on the UE shall be reconsidered when the state of
the art technology progresses.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.6.2.2.1.

### 5.10B.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE ACLR does not exceed prescribed limit shown in
table 5.10B.1. This is applicable for all values of *β~c\ ~*, *β~d\ ~*
,* β~hs~*, *β~ec\ ~*and *β~ed\ ~* as specified in \[5\]. The maximum
output power with HS-DPCCH and/or E-DCH is specified in table 5.2B.1.

Excess ACLR increases the interference to other channels or to other
systems.

### 5.10B.4 Method of test

##### 5.10B.4.1 Initial conditions {#b.4.1-initial-conditions-7 .H6}

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.1.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK) are specified in Annex C.11.1 and C.8.1.1.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.9, with the
exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages as given in Tables
5.2B.1A, 5.2B.2, 5.2B3, 5.2B.3A and 5.2B.4. These exceptions allow the
beta values to be set according to table C.11.1.3 and each UL physical
channel to be at constant power during the measurement. RF parameters
are set up according to table E.5A.1. Settings for the serving cell are
defined in table 5.10B.1A.

4\) For sub-test 1 to 4, enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping
back both the 12.2kbps RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH according to procedure
7.3.9.3.1 in TS 34.108 \[3\] and start the loopback test. For sub-test
5, enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping back HSDPA to E-DCH
according to procedure 7.3.9.3.2 in TS 34.108 \[3\] and start the
loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.10B.1A: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement\
of Adjacent Channel Leakage Power Ratio (ACLR) with E-DCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.10B.4.1                |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

##### 5.10B.4.2 Procedure {#b.4.2-procedure-7 .H6}

1\) For sub-test 1 to 4, set UE to maximum output power according to
5.2B.4.2.1 steps 1 to 8. For sub-test 5, set UE to maximum output power
according to 5.2B.4.2.2 step 1 to 4.

2\) When UE has reached the maximum power, measure the RRC filtered mean
power on the wanted channel. The measurement period shall be inside the
HS-DPCCH on-period for the wanted and the adjacent channels.

3\) Measure the RRC filtered mean power of the first adjacent channels
and the second adjacent channels.

4\) Calculate the ratio of the power between the values measured in step
2) and step 3).

5\) Repeat steps 1-4 for all the different combinations of beta values
as given in table C.11.1.3.

### 5.10B.5 Test requirements

The measured ACLR, derived in step 4), shall be higher than the limit in
table 5.10B.2.

Table 5.10B.2: UE ACLR

  ------------- -------------------- ------------
  Power Class   UE channel           ACLR limit
  3             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     32.2 dB
  3             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   42.2 dB
  4             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     32.2 dB
  4             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   42.2 dB
  ------------- -------------------- ------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause

5.10BA Adjacent Channel Leakage Power Ratio (ACLR) with E-DCH for OLTD
----------------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.10BA.1 Definition and applicability

ACLR is the ratio of the RRC filtered mean power centred on the assigned
channel frequency to the RRC filtered mean power centred on an adjacent
channel frequency.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 6 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA and E-DCH and UL
OLTD.

### 5.10BA.2 Minimum Requirements

If the adjacent channel RRC filtered mean power is greater than −50dBm
then the ACLR shall be higher than the value specified in
table 5.10BA.1. This is applicable for all values of *β~c\ ~*, *β~d\ ~*
,* β~hs~*, *β~ec\ ~*and *β~ed\ ~* as specified in \[5\].

Table 5.10BA.1: UE ACLR

  ------------- -------------------- ------------
  Power Class   UE channel           ACLR limit
  3             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     33 dB
  3             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   43 dB
  4             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     33 dB
  4             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   43 dB
  ------------- -------------------- ------------

NOTE 1: The requirement shall still be met in the presence of switching
transients.

NOTE 2: The ACLR requirements reflect what can be achieved with present
state of the art technology.

NOTE 3: Requirement on the UE shall be reconsidered when the state of
the art technology progresses.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.6.2.2.1B.

### 5.10BA.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE ACLR does not exceed prescribed limit shown in
table 5.10BA.1. This is applicable for all values of *β~c\ ~*, *β~d\ ~*
,* β~hs~*, *β~ec\ ~*and *β~ed\ ~* as specified in \[5\]. The maximum
output power with HS-DPCCH and/or E-DCH is specified in table 5.2B.1.

Excess ACLR increases the interference to other channels or to other
systems.

### 5.10BA.4 Method of test

##### 5.10BA.4.1 Initial conditions {#ba.4.1-initial-conditions-3 .H6}

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK) are specified in Annex C.11.1A.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.20, with
the exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages as given in Tables
5.2B.1A, 5.2B.2, 5.2B3, 5.2B.3A and 5.2B.4. These exceptions allow the
beta values to be set according to table C.11.1A.4 and each UL physical
channel to be at constant power during the measurement. RF parameters
are set up according to table E.5A.1. Settings for the serving cell are
defined in table 5.10BA.1A.

4\) For sub-test 1 to 4, enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping
back both the 12.2kbps RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH according to procedure
7.3.20.3.1 in TS 34.108 \[3\] and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.10BA.1A: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement\
of Adjacent Channel Leakage Power Ratio (ACLR) with E-DCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.10BA.4.1               |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

##### 5.10BA.4.2 Procedure {#ba.4.2-procedure-3 .H6}

1\) For sub-test 1 to 4, set UE to maximum output power according to
5.2B.4.2.1 steps 1 to 8. For sub-test 5, set UE to maximum output power
according to 5.2B.4.2.2 step 1 to 4.

2\) When UE has reached the maximum power, measure the RRC filtered mean
power on the wanted channel. The measurement period shall be inside the
HS-DPCCH on-period for the wanted and the adjacent channels.

3\) Measure the RRC filtered mean power of the first adjacent channels
and the second adjacent channels.

4\) Calculate the ratio of the power between the values measured in step
2) and step 3).

5\) Repeat steps 1-4 for all the different combinations of beta values
as given in table C.11.1A.4.

### 5.10BA.5 Test requirements

The measured ACLR, derived in step 4), shall be higher than the limit in
table 5.10BA.2.

Table 5.10BA.2: UE ACLR

  ------------- -------------------- ------------
  Power Class   UE channel           ACLR limit
  3             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     32.2 dB
  3             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   42.2 dB
  4             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     32.2 dB
  4             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   42.2 dB
  ------------- -------------------- ------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause.

5.10BB Adjacent Channel Leakage Power Ratio (ACLR) with E-DCH for UL CLTD Activation state 1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.10BB.1 Definition and applicability

ACLR is the ratio of the RRC filtered mean power centred on the assigned
channel frequency to the RRC filtered mean power centred on an adjacent
channel frequency.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA and E-DCH and UL
CLTD.

### 5.10BB.2 Minimum Requirements

If the adjacent channel RRC filtered mean power is greater than −50dBm
then the ACLR shall be higher than the value specified in
table 5.10BB.1. This is applicable for all values of *β~c\ ~*, *β~d\ ~*
,* β~hs~*, *β~ec\ ~*and *β~ed\ ~* as specified in \[5\].

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL CLTD activation
state 1, the ACLR requirements specified in Table 5.10BB.1 apply at each
transmit antenna connector.

Table 5.10BB.1: UE ACLR

  ------------- -------------------- ------------
  Power Class   UE channel           ACLR limit
  3             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     33 dB
  3             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   43 dB
  4             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     33 dB
  4             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   43 dB
  ------------- -------------------- ------------

NOTE 1: The requirement shall still be met in the presence of switching
transients.

NOTE 2: The ACLR requirements reflect what can be achieved with present
state of the art technology.

NOTE 3: Requirement on the UE shall be reconsidered when the state of
the art technology progresses.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.6.2.2.1C.

### 5.10BB.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE ACLR does not exceed prescribed limit shown in
table 5.10BB.1. This is applicable for all values of *β~c\ ~*, *β~d\ ~*
,* β~hs~*, *β~ec\ ~*and *β~ed\ ~* as specified in \[5\]. The maximum
output power with HS-DPCCH and/or E-DCH and UL CLTD is specified in
table 5.2BD.1.

Excess ACLR increases the interference to other channels or to other
systems.

### 5.10BB.4 Method of test

##### 5.10BB.4.1 Initial conditions {#bb.4.1-initial-conditions-3 .H6}

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK) are specified in Annex C, clause C.11.1A
and C.8.1.1.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.19, with
the exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages as given in Tables
5.2BD.1A, 5.2BD.2, 5.2BD3 and 5.2BD.4. These exceptions allow the beta
values to be set according to table C.11.1A.4 and each UL physical
channel to be at constant power during the measurement. RF parameters
are set up according to table E.5A.1. Settings for the serving cell are
defined in table 5.10BB.1A.

4\) For sub-test 1 to 4, enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping
back both the 12.2kbps RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH according to procedure
7.3.19.3 in TS 34.108 \[3\] and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.10BB.1A: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement\
of Adjacent Channel Leakage Power Ratio (ACLR) with E-DCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.10BB.4.1               |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

##### 5.10BB.4.2 Procedure {#bb.4.2-procedure-3 .H6}

1\) For sub-test 1 to 4, set UE to maximum output power according to
5.2BD.4.2.1 steps 1 to 8.

2\) When UE has reached the maximum power, measure the RRC filtered mean
power on the wanted channel. The measurement period shall be inside the
HS-DPCCH on-period for the wanted and the adjacent channels.

3\) Measure the RRC filtered mean power of the first adjacent channels
and the second adjacent channels.

4\) Calculate the ratio of the power between the values measured in step
2) and step 3).

5\) Repeat steps 1-4 for all the different combinations of beta values
as given in table C.11.1A.4.

### 5.10BB.5 Test requirements

The measured ACLR, derived in step 4), shall be higher than the limit in
table 5.10BB.2.

Table 5.10BB.2: UE ACLR

  ------------- -------------------- ------------
  Power Class   UE channel           ACLR limit
  3             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     32.2 dB
  3             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   42.2 dB
  4             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     32.2 dB
  4             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   42.2 dB
  ------------- -------------------- ------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4

5.10BC Adjacent Channel Leakage Power Ratio (ACLR) with E-DCH for UL CLTD Activation state 2 and 3
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.10BC.1 Definition and applicability

ACLR is the ratio of the RRC filtered mean power centred on the assigned
channel frequency to the RRC filtered mean power centred on an adjacent
channel frequency.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA, E-DCH and UL
CLTD.

### 5.10BC.2 Minimum Requirements

If the adjacent channel RRC filtered mean power is greater than −50dBm
then the ACLR shall be higher than the value specified in
table 5.10BC.1. This is applicable for all values of *β~c\ ~*, *β~d\ ~*
,* β~hs~*, *β~ec\ ~*and *β~ed\ ~* as specified in \[5\].

For UE configured in UL CLTD activation state 2 or activation state 3,
the ACLR requirements specified in Table 5.10BC.1 apply at the active
transmit antenna connector.

Table 5.10BC.1: UE ACLR

  ------------- -------------------- ------------
  Power Class   UE channel           ACLR limit
  3             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     33 dB
  3             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   43 dB
  4             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     33 dB
  4             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   43 dB
  ------------- -------------------- ------------

NOTE 1: The requirement shall still be met in the presence of switching
transients.

NOTE 2: The ACLR requirements reflect what can be achieved with present
state of the art technology.

NOTE 3: Requirement on the UE shall be reconsidered when the state of
the art technology progresses.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.6.2.2.1C.

### 5.10BC.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE ACLR does not exceed prescribed limit shown in
table 5.10BC.1. This is applicable for all values of *β~c\ ~*, *β~d\ ~*
,* β~hs~*, *β~ec\ ~*and *β~ed\ ~* as specified in \[5\]. The maximum
output power with HS-DPCCH and/or E-DCH is specified in table 5.2BE.1.

Excess ACLR increases the interference to other channels or to other
systems.

### 5.10BC.4 Method of test

##### 5.10BC.4.1 Initial conditions {#bc.4.1-initial-conditions-3 .H6}

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK) are specified in Annex C, clause C.11.1 and
C.8.1.1.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.19, with
the exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages as given in Tables
5.2BE.1A, 5.2BE.2, 5.2BE3, 5.2BE.3A, 5.2BE.4 and 5.10BC.1B. These
exceptions allow the beta values to be set according to table C.11.1.3
and each UL physical channel to be at constant power during the
measurement. RF parameters are set up according to table E.5A.1.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.10BC.1A.

4\) For sub-test 1 to 4, enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping
back both the 12.2kbps RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH according to procedure
7.3.19.3 in TS 34.108 \[3\] and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.10BC.1A: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement\
of Adjacent Channel Leakage Power Ratio (ACLR) with E-DCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.10BC.4.1               |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

Table 5.10BC.1B: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA)

+----------------------------------+--------------+---------+
| Information Element              | Value/remark | Version |
+----------------------------------+--------------+---------+
| Uplink CLTD info FDD             |              | Rel-11  |
+----------------------------------+--------------+---------+
| \- CHOICE *Mode*                 | New          |         |
+----------------------------------+--------------+---------+
| \- S-DPCCH Info                  |              |         |
+----------------------------------+--------------+---------+
| > \- S-DPCCH/DPCCH power offset  | 0            |         |
+----------------------------------+--------------+---------+
| \- Initial CLTD activation state | Second state |         |
+----------------------------------+--------------+---------+

#####  {#section .H6}

##### 5.10BC.4.2 Procedure {#bc.4.2-procedure-3 .H6}

1\) For sub-test 1 to 4, set UE to maximum output power according to
5.2BE.4.2.1 steps 1 to 8.

2\) When UE has reached the maximum power, measure the RRC filtered mean
power on the wanted channel. The measurement period shall be inside the
HS-DPCCH on-period for the wanted and the adjacent channels.

3\) Measure the RRC filtered mean power of the first adjacent channels
and the second adjacent channels.

4\) Calculate the ratio of the power between the values measured in step
2) and step 3).

5\) Repeat steps 1-4 for all the different combinations of beta values
as given in table C.11.1.3.

6\) SS sends a HS-SCCH order activating UL\_CLTD activation state 3.

7\) Repeat step 1 to 5 for activation state 3.

### 5.10BC.5 Test requirements

The measured ACLR, derived in step 4), shall be higher than the limit in
table 5.10BC.2.

Table 5.10BC.2: UE ACLR

  ------------- -------------------- ------------
  Power Class   UE channel           ACLR limit
  3             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     32.2 dB
  3             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   42.2 dB
  4             +5 MHz or −5 MHz     32.2 dB
  4             +10 MHz or −10 MHz   42.2 dB
  ------------- -------------------- ------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4

5.10C Adjacent Channel Leakage Power Ratio (ACLR) with E-DCH for DC-HSUPA (QPSK)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.10C.1 Definition and applicability

In the case dual adjacent carriers are assigned on the uplink, ACLR is
the ratio of the sum of the RRC filtered mean powers centred on each of
the two assigned channel frequencies to the RRC filtered mean power
centred on an adjacent channel frequency.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 9 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA and Dual Cell E-DCH.

### 5.10C.2 Minimum Requirements

If the adjacent channel RRC filtered mean power is greater than −50dBm
then the ACLR shall be higher than the value specified in table 5.10C.1.
This is applicable for all values of *β~c\ ~*, *β~hs~*, *β~ec\ ~*and
*β~ed\ ~* as specified in \[5\]. However, it is necessary to verify the
requirements only for the DC-HSUPA configurations in subclause C.2.8.

Table 5.10C.1: UE ACLR for DC-HSUPA

  ------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------
  Power Class   Adjacent channel frequency relative to the centre of two assigned channel frequencies   ACLR limit
  3             \+ 7.5 MHz or - 7.5 MHz                                                                 33 dB
  3             \+ 12.5 MHz or - 12.5 MHz                                                               36 dB
  4             \+ 7.5 MHz or - 7.5 MHz                                                                 33 dB
  4             \+ 12.5 MHz or -12.5 MHz                                                                36 dB
  ------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------

NOTE 1: The requirement shall still be met in the presence of switching
transients.

NOTE 2: The ACLR requirements reflect what can be achieved with present
state of the art technology.

NOTE 3: Requirement on the UE shall be reconsidered when the state of
the art technology progresses.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.6.2.2.1A.

### 5.10C.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE ACLR does not exceed prescribed limit shown in
table 5.10C.1. This is applicable for all values of *β~c\ ~*, *β~d\ ~*
,* β~hs~*, *β~ec\ ~*and *β~ed\ ~* as specified in \[5\].

Excess ACLR increases the interference to other channels or to other
systems.

### 5.10C.4 Method of test

##### 5.10C.4.1 Initial conditions {#c.4.1-initial-conditions-7 .H6}

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.41.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and parameters are specified in
Annex C.2.8 and C.11A. The DL Reference Measurement Channel (FRC H-SET
3A, QPSK) is specified in C.8.1.1.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.14, with
the exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages as given in Tables
5.2BA.2, 5.2BA.3, 5.2BA4 and 5.2BA.5. These exceptions allow the beta
values to be set according to table C.11A.1.1, table C.11A.1.2 and each
UL physical channel to be at constant power during the measurement. RF
parameters are set up according to table E.5A.1A. Settings for the
serving cell are defined in table 5.10C.2.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping back HSDPA to E-DCH
according to procedure 7.3.14.3 in TS 34.108 \[3\] and start the
loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.10C.2: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement\
of Adjacent Channel Leakage Power Ratio (ACLR) with E-DCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.10C.4.1                |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

##### 5.10C.4.2 Procedure {#c.4.2-procedure-7 .H6}

1\) Set UE to maximum output power according to 5.2BA.4.2 step 1 to 4.

2\) Measure the sum of the RRC filtered mean powers centred on each of
the two assigned channel frequencies. The measurement period shall be
inside the HS-DPCCH on-period for the wanted and the adjacent channels.

3\) Measure the RRC filtered mean power of the first adjacent channels
and the second adjacent channels.

4\) Calculate the ratio of the power between the values measured in step
2) and step 3).

5\) Repeat steps 1-4 for all the different combinations of beta values
as given in table C.11A.1.1.

6\) Repeat steps 1-5 for all the different configurations given in table
5.2BA.5A

### 5.10C.5 Test requirements

The measured ACLR, derived in step 4), shall be higher than the limit in
table 5.10C.3.

Table 5.10C.3: UE ACLR for DC-HSUPA

  ------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------
  Power Class   Adjacent channel frequency relative to the centre of two assigned channel frequencies   ACLR limit
  3             \+ 7.5 MHz or - 7.5 MHz                                                                 32.2 dB
  3             \+ 12.5 MHz or - 12.5 MHz                                                               35.2 dB
  4             \+ 7.5 MHz or - 7.5 MHz                                                                 32.2 dB
  4             \+ 12.5 MHz or -12.5 MHz                                                                35.2 dB
  ------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause

5.10D Adjacent Channel Leakage Power Ratio (ACLR) with E-DCH for DC-HSUPA (16QAM)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 5.10D.1 Definition and applicability

In the case dual adjacent carriers are assigned on the uplink, ACLR is
the ratio of the sum of the RRC filtered mean powers centred on each of
the two assigned channel frequencies to the RRC filtered mean power
centred on an adjacent channel frequency.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 9 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA and Dual Cell E-DCH
16QAM UE capability category 9.

### 5.10D.2 Minimum Requirements

If the adjacent channel RRC filtered mean power is greater than −50dBm
then the ACLR shall be higher than the value specified in table 5.10D.1.
This is applicable for all values of *β~c\ ~*, *β~hs~*, *β~ec\ ~*and
*β~ed\ ~* as specified in \[5\]. However, it is necessary to verify the
requirements only for the DC-HSUPA configurations in subclause C.2.8.

Table 5.10D.1: UE ACLR for DC-HSUPA

  ------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------
  Power Class   Adjacent channel frequency relative to the centre of two assigned channel frequencies   ACLR limit
  3             \+ 7.5 MHz or - 7.5 MHz                                                                 33 dB
  3             \+ 12.5 MHz or - 12.5 MHz                                                               36 dB
  4             \+ 7.5 MHz or - 7.5 MHz                                                                 33 dB
  4             \+ 12.5 MHz or -12.5 MHz                                                                36 dB
  ------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------

NOTE 1: The requirement shall still be met in the presence of switching
transients.

NOTE 2: The ACLR requirements reflect what can be achieved with present
state of the art technology.

NOTE 3: Requirement on the UE shall be reconsidered when the state of
the art technology progresses.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.6.2.2.1A.

### 5.10D.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE ACLR does not exceed prescribed limit shown in
table 5.10D.1. This is applicable for all values of *β~c\ ~*, *β~d\ ~*
,* β~hs~*, *β~ec\ ~*and *β~ed\ ~* as specified in \[5\].

Excess ACLR increases the interference to other channels or to other
systems.

### 5.10D.4 Method of test

##### 5.10D.4.1 Initial conditions {#d.4.1-initial-conditions-6 .H6}

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.41.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and parameters are specified in
Annex C.2.8 and C.11A. The DL Reference Measurement Channel (FRC H-SET
3A, QPSK) is specified in C.8.1.1.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.14, with
the exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages as given in Tables
5.2BA.2, 5.2BA.3, 5.2BA4 and 5.2BA.5. These exceptions allow the beta
values to be set according to table C.11A.1.1, table C.11A.1.2 and each
UL physical channel to be at constant power during the measurement. RF
parameters are set up according to table E.5A.1A. Settings for the
serving cell are defined in table 5.10D.2.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping back HSDPA to E-DCH
according to procedure 7.3.14.3 in TS 34.108 \[3\] and start the
loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.10D.2: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement\
of Adjacent Channel Leakage Power Ratio (ACLR) with E-DCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.10D.4.1                |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

##### 5.10D.4.2 Procedure {#d.4.2-procedure-6 .H6}

1\) Set UE to maximum output power according to 5.2BA.4.2 step 1 to 4.

2\) Measure the sum of the RRC filtered mean powers centred on each of
the two assigned channel frequencies. The measurement period shall be
inside the HS-DPCCH on-period for the wanted and the adjacent channels.

3\) Measure the RRC filtered mean power of the first adjacent channels
and the second adjacent channels.

4\) Calculate the ratio of the power between the values measured in step
2) and step 3).

5\) Repeat steps 1-4 for all the different combinations of beta values
as given in table C.11A.1.2.

6\) Repeat steps 1-5 for all the different configurations given in table
5.2BB.5.

### 5.10D.5 Test requirements

The measured ACLR, derived in step 4), shall be higher than the limit in
table 5.10D.3.

Table 5.10D.3: UE ACLR for DC-HSUPA

  ------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------
  Power Class   Adjacent channel frequency relative to the centre of two assigned channel frequencies   ACLR limit
  3             \+ 7.5 MHz or - 7.5 MHz                                                                 32.2 dB
  3             \+ 12.5 MHz or - 12.5 MHz                                                               35.2 dB
  4             \+ 7.5 MHz or - 7.5 MHz                                                                 32.2 dB
  4             \+ 12.5 MHz or -12.5 MHz                                                                35.2 dB
  ------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause.

5.11 Spurious Emissions
-----------------------

### 5.11.1 Definition and applicability

Spurious emissions are emissions which are caused by unwanted
transmitter effects such as harmonics emission, parasitic emission,
intermediation products and frequency conversion products, but exclude
out of band emissions.

The frequency boundary and the detailed transitions of the limits
between the requirement for out band emissions and spectrum emissions
are based on ITU-R Recommendations SM.329.

The requirements and this test apply to all types of UTRA for the FDD
UE.

### 5.11.2 Minimum Requirements

These requirements are only applicable for frequencies, which are
greater than 12.5 MHz away from the UE centre carrier frequency.

Table 5.11.1a: General spurious emissions requirements

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- --------------------- --------
  Frequency Bandwidth                                                                           Measurement Bandwidth   Minimum requirement   Note
  9 kHz ≤ f \< 150 kHz                                                                          1 kHz                   −36 dBm               
  150 kHz ≤ f \< 30 MHz                                                                         10 kHz                  −36 dBm               
  30 MHz ≤ f \< 1 000 MHz                                                                       100 kHz                 −36 dBm               
  1 GHz ≤ f \< 12,75 GHz                                                                        1 MHz                   −30 dBm               
  12.75 GHz ≤ f \< 5^th^ harmonic of the upper frequency edge of the UL operating band in GHz   1 MHz                   −30 dBm               Note 1
  NOTE 1: Applies only for Band XXII.                                                                                                         
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- --------------------- --------

Table 5.11.1b: Additional spurious emissions requirements

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Operating Band | Frequency      | Measurement    | Minimum        |
|                | Bandwidth      | Bandwidth      | requirement    |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| I              | 461 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 466 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 460 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 465 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 703 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 100 kHz        | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | 935 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1510.9 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz \<  | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | f \<1915.7 MHz |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2570 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| II             | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 758 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2483.5 MHz ≤ f | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 2495 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| III            | 461 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 466 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 460 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 465 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 703 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 894 MHz        |                | note 5)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 100 kHz        | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | 935 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1447 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1467 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1496 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                | note 5)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1880 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1920 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 1915.7 MHz   |                | note 5)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2570 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| IV             | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2483.5 MHz ≤ f | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 2495 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| V              | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 703 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -27 dBm        |
|                | 869 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 869 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2483.5 MHz ≤ f | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 2495 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| VI             | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 860 MHz ≤ f \< | 1 MHz          | -37 dBm        |
|                | 875 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 875 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 890 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 945 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 960 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1915.7 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| VII            | 461 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 466 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 460 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 465 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 756 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 758 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 791 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f    | 100 kHz\       | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 935 MHz      | 3.84 MHz       | note 1)\       |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz \< f  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1496 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1900 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1920 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -40 dBm        |
|                | 2620 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| VIII           | 461 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 466 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 460 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 465 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 703 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 860 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -37 dBm (see   |
|                | 890 MHz        |                | note 4)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f    | 100 kHz        | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 935 MHz      |                | note 1)\       |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)\       |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1496 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                | note 4)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz \< f  | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 1830 MHz     |                | notes 1 and    |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       | 2)\            |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm (see   |
|                |                |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1830 MHz \< f  | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 1880 MHz     |                | note 1)\       |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1880MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1920 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                | note 4)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2570 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2640 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2640 MHz \< f  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 2690 MHz     |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| IX             | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859MHz ≤ f ≤   | 3.84 MHz       | -60dBm         |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 945 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 960 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60dBm         |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| X              | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f    | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 894 MHz      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2570 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XI             | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 860 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 890 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 945 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 960 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.8 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1915.7 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XII            | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2483.5 MHz ≤ f | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 2495 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3550 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3700 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XIII           | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756MHz         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 763 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -35 dBm (see   |
|                | 775 MHz        |                | note 3)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 793 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -35 dBm (see   |
|                | 805 MHz        |                | note 3)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2483.5 MHz ≤ f | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 2495 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3550 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3700 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XIV            | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 769 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -35 dBm (see   |
|                | 775 MHz        |                | note 3)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 799 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -35 dBm (see   |
|                | 805 MHz        |                | note 3)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2483.5 MHz ≤ f | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 2495 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3550 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3700 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XIX            | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 860 MHz ≤ f \< | 1 MHz          | -37 dBm        |
|                | 875 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 875 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 890 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 945 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 960 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XX             | 461 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 466 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 460 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 465 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 753 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 788 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 100 kHz\       | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | 935 MHz        | 3.84 MHz       | note 1)\       |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz \< f  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1496 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 2620 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXI            | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 860 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 890 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 945 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 960 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 1 MHz          | -35 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXII           | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 791 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f    | 100 kHz\       | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 935 MHz      | 3.84 MHz       | note 1)\       |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | ***3.84 MHz*** |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz \< f  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1496 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | ***3.84 MHz*** |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1880 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1920 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2620 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -40 dBm        |
|                | 3525 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3600 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXV            | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2483.5 MHz ≤ f | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 2495 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXVI           | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 799 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 799 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -40 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 945 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 960 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤f  | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2483.5 MHz ≤ f | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 2495 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f   | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤3800 MHz      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| NOTE 1: The    |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| are made on    |                |                |                |
| frequencies    |                |                |                |
| which are      |                |                |                |
| integer        |                |                |                |
| multiples of   |                |                |                |
| 200 kHz. As    |                |                |                |
| exceptions, up |                |                |                |
| to five        |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| with a level   |                |                |                |
| up to the      |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| requirements   |                |                |                |
| defined in     |                |                |                |
| table 5.11.1a  |                |                |                |
| are permitted  |                |                |                |
| for each       |                |                |                |
| UARFCN used in |                |                |                |
| the            |                |                |                |
| measurement.   |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 2: The    |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| are made on    |                |                |                |
| frequencies    |                |                |                |
| which are      |                |                |                |
| integer        |                |                |                |
| multiples of   |                |                |                |
| 200 kHz. As    |                |                |                |
| exceptions,    |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| with a level   |                |                |                |
| up to the      |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| requirements   |                |                |                |
| defined in     |                |                |                |
| Table 5.11.1a  |                |                |                |
| are permitted  |                |                |                |
| for each       |                |                |                |
| UARFCN used in |                |                |                |
| the            |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| due to 2^nd^,  |                |                |                |
| 3^rd^ or 4^th^ |                |                |                |
| harmonic       |                |                |                |
| spurious       |                |                |                |
| emissions.     |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 3: This   |                |                |                |
| requirement is |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| also for       |                |                |                |
| frequencies,   |                |                |                |
| which are      |                |                |                |
| between 2.5    |                |                |                |
| MHz and 12.5   |                |                |                |
| MHz away from  |                |                |                |
| the UE centre  |                |                |                |
| carrier        |                |                |                |
| frequency.     |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 4: This   |                |                |                |
| requirement is |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| only when      |                |                |                |
| transmission   |                |                |                |
| is made        |                |                |                |
| between 900MHz |                |                |                |
| to 915MHz.     |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 5: This   |                |                |                |
| requirement is |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| only when      |                |                |                |
| transmission   |                |                |                |
| is made        |                |                |                |
| between 1744.9 |                |                |                |
| MHz to 1784.9  |                |                |                |
| MHz            |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

NOTE: The applicability of each line in Table 5.11.1b for UEs of
different releases is defined in TS 25.101 \[1\].

Table 5.11.1c: Additional spurious emissions requirements

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Operating    | **Frequency    | **Measurement  | **Minimum      |
| Band**         | Bandwidth**    | Bandwidth**    | requirement**  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXVI           | 806 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -42 dBm (NOTE  |
|                | 813.5 MHz      |                | 1)             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 806 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -42 dBm (NOTE  |
|                | 816 MHz        |                | 2)             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -32 dBm (NOTE  |
|                | 859 MHz        |                | 3)             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 851 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -53 dBm (NOTE  |
|                | 859 MHz        |                | 4)             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| NOTE 1:        |                |                |                |
| Applicable for |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≥  |                |                |                |
| 816.4 MHz. For |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≤  |                |                |                |
| 819.6 MHz the  |                |                |                |
| IE \"Maximum   |                |                |                |
| allowed UL TX  |                |                |                |
| power\" shall  |                |                |                |
| be indicated   |                |                |                |
| and set to +17 |                |                |                |
| dBm.           |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 2:        |                |                |                |
| Applicable for |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≥  |                |                |                |
| 819.4 MHz. For |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≤  |                |                |                |
| 822 MHz the IE |                |                |                |
| \"Maximum      |                |                |                |
| allowed UL TX  |                |                |                |
| power\" shall  |                |                |                |
| be indicated   |                |                |                |
| and set to +17 |                |                |                |
| dBm.           |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 3:        |                |                |                |
| Applicable for |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≤  |                |                |                |
| 846.6 MHz. For |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≥  |                |                |                |
| 842.4 MHz the  |                |                |                |
| IE \"Maximum   |                |                |                |
| allowed UL TX  |                |                |                |
| power\" shall  |                |                |                |
| be indicated   |                |                |                |
| and set to +10 |                |                |                |
| dBm.           |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 4:        |                |                |                |
| Applicable for |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≤  |                |                |                |
| 846.6 MHz. For |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≥  |                |                |                |
| 842.4 MHz the  |                |                |                |
| IE \"Maximum   |                |                |                |
| allowed UL TX  |                |                |                |
| power\" shall  |                |                |                |
| be indicated   |                |                |                |
| and set to +10 |                |                |                |
| dBm.           |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 5: For    |                |                |                |
| the 6.25kHz    |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| bandwidth, the |                |                |                |
| emissions      |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| shall be       |                |                |                |
| sufficiently   |                |                |                |
| power averaged |                |                |                |
| to ensure      |                |                |                |
| standard       |                |                |                |
| standard       |                |                |                |
| deviation \<   |                |                |                |
| 0.5 dB.        |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

As exceptions, up to five measurements with a level up to the applicable
requirements defined in table 5.11.1a are permitted in each of the
bands, 925 MHz to 960 MHz and 1805 MHz to 1880 MHz for each UARFCN used
in the measurement. The reference is 3GPP TS 45.005 \[29\].

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.6.3.1.

### 5.11.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE spurious emissions do not exceed described value
shown in table 5.11.1a, table 5.11.1b and table 5.11.1c.

Excess spurious emissions increase the interference to other systems.

### 5.11.4 Method of test

##### 5.11.4.1 Initial conditions {#initial-conditions-13 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.8.

2\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure in
TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.2.

3\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 5.11.4.2 Procedure {#procedure-13 .H6}

1\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE until
the UE output power shall be maximum level.

2\) Sweep the spectrum analyzer (or equivalent equipment) over a
frequency range and measure the average power of spurious emission.

### 5.11.5 Test requirements

The measured average power of spurious emission, derived in step 2),
shall not exceed the described value in tables 5.11.2a, 5.11.2b and
5.11.2c.

These requirements are only applicable for frequencies, which are
greater than 12.5 MHz away from the UE centre carrier frequency.

Table 5.11.2a: General spurious emissions test requirements

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- --------------------- --------
  Frequency Bandwidth                                                                           Measurement Bandwidth   Minimum requirement   Note
  9 kHz ≤ f \< 150 kHz                                                                          1 kHz                   −36 dBm               
  150 kHz ≤ f \< 30 MHz                                                                         10 kHz                  −36 dBm               
  30 MHz ≤ f \< 1 000 MHz                                                                       100 kHz                 −36 dBm               
  1 GHz ≤ f \< 12,75 GHz                                                                        1 MHz                   −30 dBm               
  12.75 GHz ≤ f \< 5^th^ harmonic of the upper frequency edge of the UL operating band in GHz   1 MHz                   −30 dBm               Note 1
  NOTE 1: Applies only for Band XXII.                                                                                                         
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- --------------------- --------

Table 5.11.2b: Additional spurious emissions test requirements

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Operating Band | Frequency      | Measurement    | Minimum        |
|                | Bandwidth      | Bandwidth      | requirement    |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| I              | 461 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 466 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 460 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 465 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 703 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 100 kHz        | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | 935 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1510.9 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz \<  | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | f \<1915.7 MHz |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2570 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| II             | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 758 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| III            | 461 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50dBm         |
|                | 466 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 460 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 465 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 703 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 894 MHz        |                | note 5)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 100 kHz        | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | 935 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1447 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1467 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1496 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                | note 5)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1880 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1920 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 1915.7 MHz   |                | note 5)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2570 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| IV             | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| V              | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 703 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -27 dBm        |
|                | 869 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 869 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| VI             | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 860 MHz ≤ f \< | 1 MHz          | -37 dBm        |
|                | 875 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 875 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 890 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 945 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 960 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1915.7 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| VII            | 461 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 466 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 460 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 465 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 756 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 758 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 791 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f    | 100 kHz\       | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 935 MHz      | 3.84 MHz       | note 1)\       |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz \< f  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1496 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1900 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1920 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -40 dBm        |
|                | 2620 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| VIII           | 461 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 466 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 460 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 465 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 703 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 860 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -37 dBm (see   |
|                | 890 MHz        |                | note 4)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f    | 100 kHz        | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 935 MHz      |                | note 1)\       |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)\       |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1496 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                | note 4)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz \< f  | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 1830 MHz     |                | notes 1 and    |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       | 2)\            |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm (see   |
|                |                |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1830 MHz \< f  | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 1880 MHz     |                | note 1)\       |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1880MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1920 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                | note 4)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2570 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2640 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2640 MHz \< f  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 2690 MHz     |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| IX             | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859MHz ≤ f ≤   | 3.84 MHz       | -60dBm         |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 945 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 960 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60dBm         |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| X              | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f    | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 894 MHz      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2570 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XI             | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 860 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 890 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 945 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 960 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1915.7 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XII            | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XIII           | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756MHz         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 763 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -35 dBm (see   |
|                | 775 MHz        |                | note 3)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 793 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -35 dBm (see   |
|                | 805 MHz        |                | note 3)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XIV            | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 769 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -35 dBm (see   |
|                | 775 MHz        |                | note 3)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 799 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -35 dBm (see   |
|                | 805 MHz        |                | note 3)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XIX            | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 860 MHz ≤ f \< | 1 MHz          | -37 dBm        |
|                | 875 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 875 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 890 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 945 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 960 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XX             | 461 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 466 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 460 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 465 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 753 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 788 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 100 kHz\       | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | 935 MHz        | 3.84 MHz       | note 1)\       |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz \< f  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1496 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 2620 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXI            | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 860 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 890 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 945 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 960 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 1 MHz          | -35 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXII           | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 791 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f    | 100 kHz\       | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 935 MHz      | 3.84 MHz       | note 1)\       |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | ***3.84 MHz*** |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz \< f  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1496 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | ***3.84 MHz*** |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1880 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1920 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2620 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -40 dBm        |
|                | 3525 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3600 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXV            | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXVI           | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 799 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 799 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -40 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 945 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 960 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤f  | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f   | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤3800 MHz      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| NOTE 1: The    |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| are made on    |                |                |                |
| frequencies    |                |                |                |
| which are      |                |                |                |
| integer        |                |                |                |
| multiples of   |                |                |                |
| 200 kHz. As    |                |                |                |
| exceptions, up |                |                |                |
| to five        |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| with a level   |                |                |                |
| up to the      |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| requirements   |                |                |                |
| defined in     |                |                |                |
| table 5.11.1a  |                |                |                |
| are permitted  |                |                |                |
| for each       |                |                |                |
| UARFCN used in |                |                |                |
| the            |                |                |                |
| measurement.   |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 2: The    |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| are made on    |                |                |                |
| frequencies    |                |                |                |
| which are      |                |                |                |
| integer        |                |                |                |
| multiples of   |                |                |                |
| 200 kHz. As    |                |                |                |
| exceptions,    |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| with a level   |                |                |                |
| up to the      |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| requirements   |                |                |                |
| defined in     |                |                |                |
| Table 5.11.1a  |                |                |                |
| are permitted  |                |                |                |
| for each       |                |                |                |
| UARFCN used in |                |                |                |
| the            |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| due to 2^nd^,  |                |                |                |
| 3^rd^ , or     |                |                |                |
| 4^th^ harmonic |                |                |                |
| spurious       |                |                |                |
| emissions.     |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 3: This   |                |                |                |
| requirement is |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| also for       |                |                |                |
| frequencies,   |                |                |                |
| which are      |                |                |                |
| between 2.5    |                |                |                |
| MHz and 12.5   |                |                |                |
| MHz away from  |                |                |                |
| the UE centre  |                |                |                |
| carrier        |                |                |                |
| frequency.     |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 4: This   |                |                |                |
| requirement is |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| only when      |                |                |                |
| transmission   |                |                |                |
| is made        |                |                |                |
| between 900MHz |                |                |                |
| to 915MHz.     |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 5: This   |                |                |                |
| requirement is |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| only when      |                |                |                |
| transmission   |                |                |                |
| is made        |                |                |                |
| between 1744.9 |                |                |                |
| MHz to 1784.9  |                |                |                |
| MHz            |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

NOTE: The applicability of each line in Table 5.11.2b for UEs of
different releases is defined in TS 25.101 \[1\].

Table 5.11.2c: Additional spurious emissions requirements

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Operating    | **Frequency    | **Measurement  | **Minimum      |
| Band**         | Bandwidth**    | Bandwidth**    | requirement**  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXVI           | 806 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -42 dBm (NOTE  |
|                | 813.5 MHz      |                | 1)             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 806 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -42 dBm (NOTE  |
|                | 816 MHz        |                | 2)             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -32 dBm (NOTE  |
|                | 859 MHz        |                | 3)             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 851 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -53 dBm (NOTE  |
|                | 859 MHz        |                | 4)             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| NOTE 1:        |                |                |                |
| Applicable for |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≥  |                |                |                |
| 816.4 MHz. For |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≤  |                |                |                |
| 819.6 MHz the  |                |                |                |
| IE \"Maximum   |                |                |                |
| allowed UL TX  |                |                |                |
| power\" shall  |                |                |                |
| be indicated   |                |                |                |
| and set to +17 |                |                |                |
| dBm.           |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 2:        |                |                |                |
| Applicable for |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≥  |                |                |                |
| 819.4 MHz. For |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≤  |                |                |                |
| 822 MHz the IE |                |                |                |
| \"Maximum      |                |                |                |
| allowed UL TX  |                |                |                |
| power\" shall  |                |                |                |
| be indicated   |                |                |                |
| and set to +17 |                |                |                |
| dBm.           |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 3:        |                |                |                |
| Applicable for |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≤  |                |                |                |
| 846.6 MHz. For |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≥  |                |                |                |
| 842.4 MHz the  |                |                |                |
| IE \"Maximum   |                |                |                |
| allowed UL TX  |                |                |                |
| power\" shall  |                |                |                |
| be indicated   |                |                |                |
| and set to +10 |                |                |                |
| dBm.           |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 4:        |                |                |                |
| Applicable for |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≤  |                |                |                |
| 846.6 MHz. For |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≥  |                |                |                |
| 842.4 MHz the  |                |                |                |
| IE \"Maximum   |                |                |                |
| allowed UL TX  |                |                |                |
| power\" shall  |                |                |                |
| be indicated   |                |                |                |
| and set to +10 |                |                |                |
| dBm.           |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 5: For    |                |                |                |
| the 6.25kHz    |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| bandwidth, the |                |                |                |
| emissions      |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| shall be       |                |                |                |
| sufficiently   |                |                |                |
| power averaged |                |                |                |
| to ensure      |                |                |                |
| standard       |                |                |                |
| standard       |                |                |                |
| deviation \<   |                |                |                |
| 0.5 dB.        |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

As exceptions, up to five measurements with a level up to the applicable
requirements defined in table 5.11.2a are permitted in each of the
bands, 925 MHz to 960 MHz and 1805 MHz to 1880 MHz for each UARFCN used
in the measurement. The reference is 3GPP TS 45.005 \[29\].

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.11A Spurious Emissions for DC-HSUPA
-------------------------------------

### 5.11A.1 Definition and applicability

Spurious emissions are emissions which are caused by unwanted
transmitter effects such as harmonics emission, parasitic emission,
intermodulation products and frequency conversion products, but exclude
out of band emissions.

The frequency boundary and the detailed transitions of the limits
between the requirement for out band emissions and spectrum emissions
are based on ITU-R Recommendations SM.329.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 9 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA and Dual Cell E-DCH.

### 5.11A.2 Minimum Requirements

These requirements are only applicable for frequencies, which are
greater than 20 MHz away from the centre of the assigned carrier
frequencies when dual adjacent carriers are assigned on the uplink.

Table 5.11A.1: General spurious emissions requirements for DC-HSUPA

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- --------------------- --------
  Frequency Bandwidth                                                                           Measurement Bandwidth   Minimum requirement   Note
  9 kHz ≤ f \< 150 kHz                                                                          1 kHz                   −36 dBm               
  150 kHz ≤ f \< 30 MHz                                                                         10 kHz                  −36 dBm               
  30 MHz ≤ f \< 1 000 MHz                                                                       100 kHz                 −36 dBm               
  1 GHz ≤ f \< 12,75 GHz                                                                        1 MHz                   −30 dBm               
  12.75 GHz ≤ f \< 5^th^ harmonic of the upper frequency edge of the UL operating band in GHz   1 MHz                   −30 dBm               Note 1
  NOTE 1: Applies only for Band XXII.                                                                                                         
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- --------------------- --------

The requirements in Table 5.11A.2 are only applicable for frequencies,
which are greater than 25 MHz away from the centre of the assigned
frequencies when dual adjacent carriers are assigned on the uplink.

Table 5.11A.2: Additional spurious emissions requirements for DC-HSUPA

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Operating Band | Frequency      | Measurement    | Minimum        |
|                | Bandwidth      | Bandwidth      | requirement    |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| I              | 460 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 467.5 MHz      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 703 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 895 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f    | 100 kHz\       | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 935 MHz      | 3.84MHz        | note 1)\       |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1510.9 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1844.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -55 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz \<f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | \<1915.7 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2570 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| II             | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 758 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1990 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2620 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| III            | 460 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 467.5 MHz      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 703 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 869 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f    | 100 kHz\       | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 935 MHz      | 3.84 MHz       | note 1)\       |
|                |                |                | - 60 dBm       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1880 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1920 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2570 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2620 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| IV             | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1990 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| V              | 460 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 467.5 MHz      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 703 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -27 dBm        |
|                | 869 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 869 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1990 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400           |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 2620 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2483.5 MHz ≤ f | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 2495 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3550 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3700 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| VI             | 860 MHz ≤ f \< | 1 MHz          | -37 dBm        |
|                | 875 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 875 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 890 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1500.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1844.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| VII            | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50dBm         |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 738 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 758 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 791 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 869 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f    | 100 kHz\       | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 935 MHz      | 3.84 MHz       | note 1)\       |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz \< f  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1496 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1900 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1920 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -37 dBm        |
|                | 2620 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| VIII           | 460 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50dBm         |
|                | 467.5 MHz      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 703 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f    | 100 kHz\       | -57 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 935 MHz      | 3.84 MHz       | notes 1 and 3) |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | -50 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz\       | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        | 3.84 MHz       | note 1)        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz \< f  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1496 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz \< f  | 100 kHz\       | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 1830 MHz     | 3.84 MHz       | notes 1 and 2) |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm (see   |
|                |                |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1830 MHz \< f  | 100 kHz\       | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 1880 MHz     | 3.84 MHz       | note 1)        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1880MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1920 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2570 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2620 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2640 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2640 MHz \< f  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 2690 MHz     |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| IX             | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1844.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| X              | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1990 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2570 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XI             | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 860 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 890 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1844.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XIX            | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 860 MHz ≤ f \< | 1 MHz          | -30 dBm        |
|                | 875 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 875 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 890 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1844.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XX             | 738 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 758 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 788 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 811 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 821 MHz        |                | note 3)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 811 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f    | 100 kHz\       | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 935 MHz      | 3.84 MHz       | note 1)\       |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz \< f  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                |  1496 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 2620 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXII           | 738 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 758 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 791 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 869 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f    | 100 kHz\       | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 935 MHz      | 3.84 MHz       | note 1)\       |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1880 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1920 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2620 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -40 dBm        |
|                | 3525 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3600 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXV            | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXVI           | 460 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 467.5 MHz      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 799 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 799 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -40 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1844.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤f  | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f   | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤3800 MHz      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| NOTE 1: The    |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| are made on    |                |                |                |
| frequencies    |                |                |                |
| which are      |                |                |                |
| integer        |                |                |                |
| multiples of   |                |                |                |
| 200 kHz. As    |                |                |                |
| exceptions, up |                |                |                |
| to five        |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| with a level   |                |                |                |
| up to the      |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| requirements   |                |                |                |
| defined in     |                |                |                |
| Table 5.11A.1  |                |                |                |
| are permitted  |                |                |                |
| for each       |                |                |                |
| UARFCN used in |                |                |                |
| the            |                |                |                |
| measurement.   |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 2: The    |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| are made on    |                |                |                |
| frequencies    |                |                |                |
| which are      |                |                |                |
| integer        |                |                |                |
| multiples of   |                |                |                |
| 200 kHz. As    |                |                |                |
| exceptions,    |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| with a level   |                |                |                |
| up to the      |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| requirements   |                |                |                |
| defined in     |                |                |                |
| Table 5.11A.1  |                |                |                |
| are permitted  |                |                |                |
| for each       |                |                |                |
| UARFCN used in |                |                |                |
| the            |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| due to 2,nd 3, |                |                |                |
| or 4^th^       |                |                |                |
| rdharmonic     |                |                |                |
| spurious       |                |                |                |
| emissions.     |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 3: This   |                |                |                |
| requirement is |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| also for       |                |                |                |
| frequencies,   |                |                |                |
| which are      |                |                |                |
| between 5 MHz  |                |                |                |
| and 25 MHz     |                |                |                |
| away from the  |                |                |                |
| UE centre      |                |                |                |
| carrier        |                |                |                |
| frequency.     |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

NOTE: The applicability of each line in Table 5.11A.2 for UEs of
different releases is defined in TS 25.101 \[1\].

As exceptions, up to five measurements with a level up to the applicable
requirements defined in table 5.11A.1 are permitted in each of the
bands, 925 MHz to 960 MHz and 1805 MHz to 1880 MHz for each UARFCN used
in the measurement. The reference is 3GPP TS 45.005 \[29\].

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.6.3.1A.

### 5.11A.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE spurious emissions do not exceed described value
shown in table 5.11A.1 and table 5.11A.2.

Excess spurious emissions increase the interference to other systems.

### 5.11A.4 Method of test

##### 5.11A.4.1 Initial conditions {#a.4.1-initial-conditions-10 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.41.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and parameters are specified in
Annex C.2.6 and C.11A. The DL Reference Measurement Channel (FRC H-SET
3A, QPSK) is specified in C.8.1.1.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.14, with
the exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages as given in Tables
5.2BA.2, 5.2BA.3, 5.2BA4 and 5.2BA.5. These exceptions allow the beta
values to be set according to table C.11A.1 and each UL physical channel
to be at constant power during the measurement. RF parameters are set up
according to table E.5A.1A.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping back HSDPA to E-DCH
according to procedure 7.3.14.3 in TS 34.108 \[3\] and start the
loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 5.11A.4.2 Procedure {#a.4.2-procedure-10 .H6}

1\) Set UE to maximum output power according to 5.2BA.4.2 step 1 to 4
with the exception that only configuration \#3 from table 5.2BA.5A is
applied.

2\) Sweep the spectrum analyzer (or equivalent equipment) over a
frequency range and measure the average power of spurious emission.

### 5.11A.5 Test requirements

The measured average power of spurious emission, derived in step 2),
shall not exceed the described value in tables 5.11A.3 and 5.11A.4.

These requirements are only applicable for frequencies, which are
greater than 20 MHz away from the centre of the assigned carrier
frequencies when dual adjacent carriers are assigned on the uplink.

Table 5.11A.3: General spurious emissions test requirements for DC-HSUPA

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- --------------------- --------
  Frequency Bandwidth                                                                           Measurement Bandwidth   Minimum requirement   Note
  9 kHz ≤ f \< 150 kHz                                                                          1 kHz                   −36 dBm               
  150 kHz ≤ f \< 30 MHz                                                                         10 kHz                  −36 dBm               
  30 MHz ≤ f \< 1 000 MHz                                                                       100 kHz                 −36 dBm               
  1 GHz ≤ f \< 12,75 GHz                                                                        1 MHz                   −30 dBm               
  12.75 GHz ≤ f \< 5^th^ harmonic of the upper frequency edge of the UL operating band in GHz   1 MHz                   −30 dBm               Note 1
  NOTE 1: Applies only for Band XXII.                                                                                                         
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- --------------------- --------

  ------------------------- ----------------------- ---------------------
  Frequency Bandwidth       Measurement Bandwidth   Minimum requirement
  9 kHz ≤ f \< 150 kHz      1 kHz                   −36 dBm
  150 kHz ≤ f \< 30 MHz     10 kHz                  −36 dBm
  30 MHz ≤ f \< 1 000 MHz   100 kHz                 −36 dBm
  1 GHz ≤ f \< 12,75 GHz    1 MHz                   −30 dBm
  ------------------------- ----------------------- ---------------------

The requirements in Table 5.11A.4 are only applicable for frequencies,
which are greater than 25 MHz away from the centre of the assigned
frequencies when dual adjacent carriers are assigned on the uplink.

Table 5.11A.4: Additional spurious emissions test requirements for
DC-HSUPA

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Operating    | **Frequency    | **Measurement  | **Minimum      |
| Band**         | Bandwidth**    | Bandwidth**    | requirement**  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| I              | 460 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 467.5 MHz      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 703 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 895 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f    | 100 kHz\       | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 935 MHz      | 3.84MHz        | note 1)\       |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1510.9 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1844.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -55 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz \<f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | \<1915.7 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2570 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| II             | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 758 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1990 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2620 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| III            | 460 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 467.5 MHz      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 703 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 869 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f    | 100 kHz\       | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 935 MHz      | 3.84 MHz       | note 1)\       |
|                |                |                | - 60 dBm       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1880 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1920 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2570 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2620 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| IV             | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1990 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| V              | 460 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 467.5 MHz      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 703 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -27 dBm        |
|                | 869 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 869 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1990 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 2620 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2483.5 MHz ≤ f | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 2495 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3550 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3700 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| VI             | 860 MHz ≤ f \< | 1 MHz          | -37 dBm        |
|                | 875 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 875 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 890 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1500.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1844.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| VII            | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50dBm         |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 738 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 758 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 791 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 869 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f    | 100 kHz\       | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 935 MHz      | 3.84 MHz       | note 1)\       |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz \< f  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1496 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1900 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1920 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -37 dBm        |
|                | 2620 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| VIII           | 460 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50dBm         |
|                | 467.5 MHz      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 703 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f    | 100 kHz\       | -57 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 935 MHz      | 3.84 MHz       | notes 1 and 3) |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | -50 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz\       | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        | 3.84 MHz       | note 1)        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz \< f  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1496 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz \< f  | 100 kHz\       | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 1830 MHz     | 3.84 MHz       | notes 1 and 2) |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm (see   |
|                |                |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1830 MHz \< f  | 100 kHz\       | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 1880 MHz     | 3.84 MHz       | note 1)        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1880MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1920 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2570 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2620 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2640 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2640 MHz \< f  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 2690 MHz     |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| IX             | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1844.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| X              | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1990 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2570 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XI             | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 860 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 890 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1844.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XIX            | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 860 MHz ≤ f \< | 1 MHz          | -30 dBm        |
|                | 875 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 875 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 890 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1844.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XX             | 738 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 758 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 788 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 811 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 821 MHz        |                | note 3)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 811 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f    | 100 kHz\       | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 935 MHz      | 3.84 MHz       | note 1)\       |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz \< f  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                |  1496 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 2620 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXII           | 738 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 758 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 791 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 869 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f    | 100 kHz\       | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 935 MHz      | 3.84 MHz       | note 1)\       |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1880 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1920 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2620 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -40 dBm        |
|                | 3525 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3600 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXV            | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXVI           | 460 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 467.5 MHz      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 728 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 799 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 799 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -40 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1844.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤f  | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f   | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤3800 MHz      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| NOTE 1: The    |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| are made on    |                |                |                |
| frequencies    |                |                |                |
| which are      |                |                |                |
| integer        |                |                |                |
| multiples of   |                |                |                |
| 200 kHz. As    |                |                |                |
| exceptions, up |                |                |                |
| to five        |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| with a level   |                |                |                |
| up to the      |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| requirements   |                |                |                |
| defined in     |                |                |                |
| Table 5.11A.3  |                |                |                |
| are permitted  |                |                |                |
| for each       |                |                |                |
| UARFCN used in |                |                |                |
| the            |                |                |                |
| measurement.   |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 2: The    |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| are made on    |                |                |                |
| frequencies    |                |                |                |
| which are      |                |                |                |
| integer        |                |                |                |
| multiples of   |                |                |                |
| 200 kHz. As    |                |                |                |
| exceptions,    |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| with a level   |                |                |                |
| up to the      |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| requirements   |                |                |                |
| defined in     |                |                |                |
| Table 5.11A.3  |                |                |                |
| are permitted  |                |                |                |
| for each       |                |                |                |
| UARFCN used in |                |                |                |
| the            |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| due to 2,nd 3, |                |                |                |
| or 4^th^       |                |                |                |
| rdharmonic     |                |                |                |
| spurious       |                |                |                |
| emissions.     |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 3: This   |                |                |                |
| requirement is |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| also for       |                |                |                |
| frequencies,   |                |                |                |
| which are      |                |                |                |
| between 5 MHz  |                |                |                |
| and 25 MHz     |                |                |                |
| away from the  |                |                |                |
| UE centre      |                |                |                |
| carrier        |                |                |                |
| frequency.     |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 4: The    |                |                |                |
| applicability  |                |                |                |
| of each line   |                |                |                |
| in Table       |                |                |                |
| 5.11A.4 for    |                |                |                |
| UEs of         |                |                |                |
| different      |                |                |                |
| releases is    |                |                |                |
| defined in     |                |                |                |
| TS             |                |                |                |
|  25.101 \[1\]. |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

As exceptions, up to five measurements with a level up to the applicable
requirements defined in table 5.11A.3 are permitted in each of the
bands, 925 MHz to 960 MHz and 1805 MHz to 1880 MHz for each UARFCN used
in the measurement. The reference is 3GPP TS 45.005 \[29\].

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.11B Spurious Emissions for UL OLTD
------------------------------------

Editor's note: For a transition period of two meeting cycles until
RAN\#70, the test requirements in version 11.6.0 of this specification
is allowed to be used for this test.

> This clause is incomplete. The following aspects are either missing or
> not yet determined:

-   Test procedure needs an update.

### 5.11B.1 Definition and applicability

Spurious emissions are emissions which are caused by unwanted
transmitter effects such as harmonics emission, parasitic emission,
intermediation products and frequency conversion products, but exclude
out of band emissions.

The frequency boundary and the detailed transitions of the limits
between the requirement for out band emissions and spectrum emissions
are based on ITU-R Recommendations SM.329.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL OLTD.

### 5.11B.2 Minimum Requirements

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL OLTD, the
spectrum emission requirements specified in sub-clause 5.11.2 apply at
each transmit antenna connector.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.6.3.1B .

### 5.11B.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE spurious emissions do not exceed described value
shown in table 5.11B.1a and table 5.11B.1b

Excess spurious emissions increase the interference to other systems.

### 5.11B.4 Method of test

##### 5.11B.4.1 Initial conditions {#b.4.1-initial-conditions-8 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.52.

2\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure in
TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause FFS.

3\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 5.11B.4.2 Procedure {#b.4.2-procedure-8 .H6}

1\) Set and send continuously up power control commands to the UE until
the UE output power shall be maximum level.

2\) Sweep the spectrum analyzer (or equivalent equipment) over a
frequency range and measure the average power of spurious emission.

### 5.11B.5 Test requirements

The measured average power of spurious emission, derived in step 2),
shall not exceed the described value in tables 5.11B.2a, 5.11B.2b and
5.11B.2c.

These requirements are only applicable for frequencies, which are
greater than 12.5 MHz away from the UE centre carrier frequency.

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL OLTD, the
spectrum emission requirements apply at each transmit antenna connector.

Table 5.11B.2a: General spurious emissions test requirements

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- --------------------- --------
  Frequency Bandwidth                                                                           Measurement Bandwidth   Minimum requirement   Note
  9 kHz ≤ f \< 150 kHz                                                                          1 kHz                   −36 dBm               
  150 kHz ≤ f \< 30 MHz                                                                         10 kHz                  −36 dBm               
  30 MHz ≤ f \< 1 000 MHz                                                                       100 kHz                 −36 dBm               
  1 GHz ≤ f \< 12,75 GHz                                                                        1 MHz                   −30 dBm               
  12.75 GHz ≤ f \< 5^th^ harmonic of the upper frequency edge of the UL operating band in GHz   1 MHz                   −30 dBm               Note 1
  NOTE 1: Applies only for Band XXII.                                                                                                         
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- --------------------- --------

Table 5.11B.2b: Additional spurious emissions test requirements

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Operating Band | Frequency      | Measurement    | Minimum        |
|                | Bandwidth      | Bandwidth      | requirement    |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| I              | 461 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 466 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 460 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 465 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 703 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 895 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 100 kHz        | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | 935 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84MHz        |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1510.9 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84MHz        |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz \<  | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | f \<1915.7 MHz |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2570 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| II             | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 758 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| III            | 461 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 466 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 460 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 465 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 703 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 894 MHz        |                | note 5)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 100 kHz        | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | 935 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1496 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                | note 5)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1880 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1920 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 1915.7 MHz   |                | note 5)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2570 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| IV             | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| V              | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 703 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -27 dBm        |
|                | 869 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 869 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1990 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| VI             | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 860 MHz ≤ f \< | 1 MHz          | -37 dBm        |
|                | 875 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 875 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 890 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 945 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 960 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1915.7 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| VII            | 461 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 466 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 460 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 465 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 756 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 758 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 791 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f    | 100 kHz\       | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 935 MHz      | 3.84 MHz       | note 1)\       |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz \< f  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1496 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1900 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1920 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2620 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| VIII           | 461 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 466 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 460 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 465 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 703 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 860 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -37 dBm (see   |
|                | 890 MHz        |                | note 4)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f    | 100 kHz        | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 935 MHz      |                | note 1)\       |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)\       |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1496 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                | note 4)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz \< f  | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 1830 MHz     |                | notes 1 and    |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       | 2)\            |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm (see   |
|                |                |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1830 MHz \< f  | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 1880 MHz     |                | note 1)\       |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1880MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1920 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                | note 4)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2570 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2640 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2640 MHz \< f  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 2690 MHz     |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| IX             | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859MHz ≤ f ≤   | 3.84 MHz       | -60dBm         |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 945 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 960 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60dBm         |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| X              | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f    | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 894 MHz      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2570 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XI             | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 860 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 890 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 945 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 960 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1915.7 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XII            | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XIII           | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756MHz         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 763 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -35 dBm (see   |
|                | 775 MHz        |                | note 3)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 793 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -35 dBm (see   |
|                | 805 MHz        |                | note 3)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XIV            | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 769 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -35 dBm (see   |
|                | 775 MHz        |                | note 3)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 799 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -35 dBm (see   |
|                | 805 MHz        |                | note 3)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XIX            | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 860 MHz ≤ f \< | 1 MHz          | -37 dBm        |
|                | 875 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 875 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 890 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 945 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 960 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XX             | 461 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 466 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 460 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 465 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 753 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 788 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 100 kHz\       | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | 935 MHz        | 3.84 MHz       | note 1)\       |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz \< f  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1496 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 2620 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXI            | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 860 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 890 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 945 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 960 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 1 MHz          | -35 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXII           | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 791 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f    | 100 kHz\       | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 935 MHz      | 3.84 MHz       | note 1)\       |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | ***3.84 MHz*** |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz \< f  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1496 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | ***3.84 MHz*** |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1880 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1920 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2620 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -40 dBm        |
|                | 3525 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3600 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXV            | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXVI           | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 799 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 799 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -40 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 945 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 960 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤f  | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤1915.6 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f   | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤3800 MHz      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| NOTE 1: The    |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| are made on    |                |                |                |
| frequencies    |                |                |                |
| which are      |                |                |                |
| integer        |                |                |                |
| multiples of   |                |                |                |
| 200 kHz. As    |                |                |                |
| exceptions, up |                |                |                |
| to five        |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| with a level   |                |                |                |
| up to the      |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| requirements   |                |                |                |
| defined in     |                |                |                |
| table 5.11.1a  |                |                |                |
| are permitted  |                |                |                |
| for each       |                |                |                |
| UARFCN used in |                |                |                |
| the            |                |                |                |
| measurement.   |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 2: The    |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| are made on    |                |                |                |
| frequencies    |                |                |                |
| which are      |                |                |                |
| integer        |                |                |                |
| multiples of   |                |                |                |
| 200 kHz. As    |                |                |                |
| exceptions,    |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| with a level   |                |                |                |
| up to the      |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| requirements   |                |                |                |
| defined in     |                |                |                |
| Table 5.11.1a  |                |                |                |
| are permitted  |                |                |                |
| for each       |                |                |                |
| UARFCN used in |                |                |                |
| the            |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| due to 2^nd^,  |                |                |                |
| 3^rd^ , or     |                |                |                |
| 4^th^ harmonic |                |                |                |
| spurious       |                |                |                |
| emissions.     |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 3: This   |                |                |                |
| requirement is |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| also for       |                |                |                |
| frequencies,   |                |                |                |
| which are      |                |                |                |
| between 2.5    |                |                |                |
| MHz and 12.5   |                |                |                |
| MHz away from  |                |                |                |
| the UE centre  |                |                |                |
| carrier        |                |                |                |
| frequency.     |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 4: This   |                |                |                |
| requirement is |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| only when      |                |                |                |
| transmission   |                |                |                |
| is made        |                |                |                |
| between 900MHz |                |                |                |
| to 915MHz.     |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 5: This   |                |                |                |
| requirement is |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| only when      |                |                |                |
| transmission   |                |                |                |
| is made        |                |                |                |
| between 1744.9 |                |                |                |
| MHz to 1784.9  |                |                |                |
| MHz            |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

NOTE 1: The applicability of each line in Table 5.11B.2b for UEs of
different releases is defined in TS 25.101 \[1\].

Table 5.11B.2c: Additional spurious emissions requirements

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Operating    | **Frequency    | **Measurement  | **Minimum      |
| Band**         | Bandwidth**    | Bandwidth**    | requirement**  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXVI           | 806 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -42 dBm (NOTE  |
|                | 813.5 MHz      |                | 1)             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 806 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -42 dBm (NOTE  |
|                | 816 MHz        |                | 2)             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -32 dBm (NOTE  |
|                | 859 MHz        |                | 3)             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 851 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -53 dBm (NOTE  |
|                | 859 MHz        |                | 4)             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| NOTE 1:        |                |                |                |
| Applicable for |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≥  |                |                |                |
| 816.4 MHz. For |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≤  |                |                |                |
| 819.6 MHz the  |                |                |                |
| IE \"Maximum   |                |                |                |
| allowed UL TX  |                |                |                |
| power\" shall  |                |                |                |
| be indicated   |                |                |                |
| and set to +17 |                |                |                |
| dBm.           |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 2:        |                |                |                |
| Applicable for |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≥  |                |                |                |
| 819.4 MHz. For |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≤  |                |                |                |
| 822 MHz the IE |                |                |                |
| \"Maximum      |                |                |                |
| allowed UL TX  |                |                |                |
| power\" shall  |                |                |                |
| be indicated   |                |                |                |
| and set to +17 |                |                |                |
| dBm.           |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 3:        |                |                |                |
| Applicable for |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≤  |                |                |                |
| 846.6 MHz. For |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≥  |                |                |                |
| 842.4 MHz the  |                |                |                |
| IE \"Maximum   |                |                |                |
| allowed UL TX  |                |                |                |
| power\" shall  |                |                |                |
| be indicated   |                |                |                |
| and set to +10 |                |                |                |
| dBm.           |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 4:        |                |                |                |
| Applicable for |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≤  |                |                |                |
| 846.6 MHz. For |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≥  |                |                |                |
| 842.4 MHz the  |                |                |                |
| IE \"Maximum   |                |                |                |
| allowed UL TX  |                |                |                |
| power\" shall  |                |                |                |
| be indicated   |                |                |                |
| and set to +10 |                |                |                |
| dBm.           |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 5: For    |                |                |                |
| the 6.25kHz    |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| bandwidth, the |                |                |                |
| emissions      |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| shall be       |                |                |                |
| sufficiently   |                |                |                |
| power averaged |                |                |                |
| to ensure      |                |                |                |
| standard       |                |                |                |
| standard       |                |                |                |
| deviation \<   |                |                |                |
| 0.5 dB.        |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

As exceptions, up to five measurements with a level up to the applicable
requirements defined in table 5.11B.2a are permitted in each of the
bands, 925 MHz to 960 MHz and 1805 MHz to 1880 MHz for each UARFCN used
in the measurement. The reference is 3GPP TS 45.005 \[29\].

NOTE 2: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

5.11C Spurious Emissions for UL CLTD Activation state 1
-------------------------------------------------------

Editor's note: For a transition period of two meeting cycles until
RAN\#70, the test requirements in version 11.6.0 of this specification
is allowed to be used for this test.

This clause is incomplete. The following aspects are either missing or
not yet determined:

-   Call Setup procedure needs an update.

### 5.11C.1 Definition and applicability

Spurious emissions are emissions which are caused by unwanted
transmitter effects such as harmonics emission, parasitic emission,
intermediation products and frequency conversion products, but exclude
out of band emissions.

The frequency boundary and the detailed transitions of the limits
between the requirement for out band emissions and spectrum emissions
are based on ITU-R Recommendations SM.329.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL CLTD.

### 5.11C.2 Minimum Requirements

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL CLTD activation
state 1, the spectrum emission requirements specified in sub-clause
5.11.2 apply at each transmit antenna connector.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.6.3.1C.

### 5.11C.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE spurious emissions do not exceed described value
shown in table 5.11C.1a and table 5.11C.1b.

Excess spurious emissions increase the interference to other systems.

### 5.11C.4 Method of test

##### 5.11C.4.1 Initial conditions {#c.4.1-initial-conditions-8 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.52.

2\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure in
TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause FFS.

3\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 5.11C.4.2 Procedure {#c.4.2-procedure-8 .H6}

1\) Set and send continuously up power control commands to the UE until
the UE output power shall be maximum level.

2\) Sweep the spectrum analyzer (or equivalent equipment) over a
frequency range and measure the average power of spurious emission.

### 5.11C.5 Test requirements

The measured average power of spurious emission, derived in step 2),
shall not exceed the described value in tables 5.11C.2a, 5.11C.2b and
5.11C.2c.

These requirements are only applicable for frequencies, which are
greater than 12.5 MHz away from the UE centre carrier frequency.

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL CLTD activation
state 1, the spectrum emission requirements apply at each transmit
antenna connector.

Table 5.11C.2a: General spurious emissions test requirements

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- --------------------- --------
  Frequency Bandwidth                                                                           Measurement Bandwidth   Minimum requirement   Note
  9 kHz ≤ f \< 150 kHz                                                                          1 kHz                   −36 dBm               
  150 kHz ≤ f \< 30 MHz                                                                         10 kHz                  −36 dBm               
  30 MHz ≤ f \< 1 000 MHz                                                                       100 kHz                 −36 dBm               
  1 GHz ≤ f \< 12,75 GHz                                                                        1 MHz                   −30 dBm               
  12.75 GHz ≤ f \< 5^th^ harmonic of the upper frequency edge of the UL operating band in GHz   1 MHz                   −30 dBm               Note 1
  NOTE 1: Applies only for Band XXII.                                                                                                         
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- --------------------- --------

Table 5.11C.2b: Additional spurious emissions test requirements

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Operating Band | Frequency      | Measurement    | Minimum        |
|                | Bandwidth      | Bandwidth      | requirement    |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| I              | 461 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 466 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 460 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 465 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 703 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 895 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 100 kHz        | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | 935 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1510.9 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz \<  | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | f \<1915.7 MHz |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2570 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| II             | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 758 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| III            | 461 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 466 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | **460 MHz ≤ f  | **1 MHz**      | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 465 MHz**    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 703 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 894 MHz        |                | note 5)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 100 kHz        | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | 935 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1496 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                | note 5)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1880 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1920 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 1915.7 MHz   |                | note 5)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2570 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| IV             | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| V              | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 703 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -27 dBm        |
|                | 869 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 869 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| VI             | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 860 MHz ≤ f \< | 1 MHz          | -37 dBm        |
|                | 875 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 875 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 890 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 945 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 960 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1915.7 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| VII            | 461 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 466 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | **460 MHz ≤ f  | **1 MHz**      | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 465 MHz**    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 756 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 758 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 791 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f    | 100 kHz\       | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 935 MHz      | 3.84 MHz       | note 1)\       |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz \< f  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1496 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1900 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1920 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -40 dBm        |
|                | 2620 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| VIII           | 461 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 466 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | **460 MHz ≤ f  | **1 MHz**      | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 465 MHz**    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 703 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 860 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -37 dBm (see   |
|                | 890 MHz        |                | note 4)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f    | 100 kHz        | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 935 MHz      |                | note 1)\       |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)\       |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1496 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                | note 4)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz \< f  | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 1830 MHz     |                | notes 1 and    |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       | 2)\            |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm (see   |
|                |                |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1830 MHz \< f  | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 1880 MHz     |                | note 1)\       |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1880MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1920 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                | note 4)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2570 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2640 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2640 MHz \< f  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 2690 MHz     |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| IX             | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859MHz ≤ f ≤   | 3.84 MHz       | -60dBm         |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 945 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 960 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60dBm         |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| X              | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f    | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 894 MHz      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2570 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XI             | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 860 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 890 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 945 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 960 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1915.7 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XII            | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XIII           | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756MHz         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 763 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -35 dBm (see   |
|                | 775 MHz        |                | note 3)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 793 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -35 dBm (see   |
|                | 805 MHz        |                | note 3)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XIV            | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 769 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -35 dBm (see   |
|                | 775 MHz        |                | note 3)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 799 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -35 dBm (see   |
|                | 805 MHz        |                | note 3)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XIX            | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 860 MHz ≤ f \< | 1 MHz          | -37 dBm        |
|                | 875 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 875 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 890 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 945 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 960 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XX             | 753 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 788 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 100 kHz\       | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | 935 MHz        | 3.84 MHz       | note 1)\       |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz \< f  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1496 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 2620 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXI            | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 860 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 890 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 945 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 960 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 1 MHz          | -35 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXII           | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 791 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f    | 100 kHz\       | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 935 MHz      | 3.84 MHz       | note 1)\       |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | ***3.84 MHz*** |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz \< f  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1496 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | ***3.84 MHz*** |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1880 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1920 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2620 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -40 dBm        |
|                | 3525 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3600 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXV            | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXVI           | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 799 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 799 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -40 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 945 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 960 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤f  | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f   | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤3800 MHz      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| NOTE 1: The    |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| are made on    |                |                |                |
| frequencies    |                |                |                |
| which are      |                |                |                |
| integer        |                |                |                |
| multiples of   |                |                |                |
| 200 kHz. As    |                |                |                |
| exceptions, up |                |                |                |
| to five        |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| with a level   |                |                |                |
| up to the      |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| requirements   |                |                |                |
| defined in     |                |                |                |
| table 5.11.1a  |                |                |                |
| are permitted  |                |                |                |
| for each       |                |                |                |
| UARFCN used in |                |                |                |
| the            |                |                |                |
| measurement.   |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 2: The    |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| are made on    |                |                |                |
| frequencies    |                |                |                |
| which are      |                |                |                |
| integer        |                |                |                |
| multiples of   |                |                |                |
| 200 kHz. As    |                |                |                |
| exceptions,    |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| with a level   |                |                |                |
| up to the      |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| requirements   |                |                |                |
| defined in     |                |                |                |
| Table 5.11.1a  |                |                |                |
| are permitted  |                |                |                |
| for each       |                |                |                |
| UARFCN used in |                |                |                |
| the            |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| due to 2^nd^,  |                |                |                |
| 3^rd^ , or     |                |                |                |
| 4^th^ harmonic |                |                |                |
| spurious       |                |                |                |
| emissions.     |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 3: This   |                |                |                |
| requirement is |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| also for       |                |                |                |
| frequencies,   |                |                |                |
| which are      |                |                |                |
| between 2.5    |                |                |                |
| MHz and 12.5   |                |                |                |
| MHz away from  |                |                |                |
| the UE centre  |                |                |                |
| carrier        |                |                |                |
| frequency.     |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 4: This   |                |                |                |
| requirement is |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| only when      |                |                |                |
| transmission   |                |                |                |
| is made        |                |                |                |
| between 900MHz |                |                |                |
| to 915MHz.     |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 5: This   |                |                |                |
| requirement is |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| only when      |                |                |                |
| transmission   |                |                |                |
| is made        |                |                |                |
| between 1744.9 |                |                |                |
| MHz to 1784.9  |                |                |                |
| MHz            |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

> NOTE 1: The applicability of each line in Table 5.11C.2b for UEs of
> different releases is defined in TS 25.101 \[1\].

Table 5.11C.2c: Additional spurious emissions requirements

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Operating    | **Frequency    | **Measurement  | **Minimum      |
| Band**         | Bandwidth**    | Bandwidth**    | requirement**  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXVI           | 806 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -42 dBm (NOTE  |
|                | 813.5 MHz      |                | 1)             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 806 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -42 dBm (NOTE  |
|                | 816 MHz        |                | 2)             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -32 dBm (NOTE  |
|                | 859 MHz        |                | 3)             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 851 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -53 dBm (NOTE  |
|                | 859 MHz        |                | 4)             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| NOTE 1:        |                |                |                |
| Applicable for |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≥  |                |                |                |
| 816.4 MHz. For |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≤  |                |                |                |
| 819.6 MHz the  |                |                |                |
| IE \"Maximum   |                |                |                |
| allowed UL TX  |                |                |                |
| power\" shall  |                |                |                |
| be indicated   |                |                |                |
| and set to +17 |                |                |                |
| dBm.           |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 2:        |                |                |                |
| Applicable for |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≥  |                |                |                |
| 819.4 MHz. For |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≤  |                |                |                |
| 822 MHz the IE |                |                |                |
| \"Maximum      |                |                |                |
| allowed UL TX  |                |                |                |
| power\" shall  |                |                |                |
| be indicated   |                |                |                |
| and set to +17 |                |                |                |
| dBm.           |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 3:        |                |                |                |
| Applicable for |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≤  |                |                |                |
| 846.6 MHz. For |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≥  |                |                |                |
| 842.4 MHz the  |                |                |                |
| IE \"Maximum   |                |                |                |
| allowed UL TX  |                |                |                |
| power\" shall  |                |                |                |
| be indicated   |                |                |                |
| and set to +10 |                |                |                |
| dBm.           |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 4:        |                |                |                |
| Applicable for |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≤  |                |                |                |
| 846.6 MHz. For |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≥  |                |                |                |
| 842.4 MHz the  |                |                |                |
| IE \"Maximum   |                |                |                |
| allowed UL TX  |                |                |                |
| power\" shall  |                |                |                |
| be indicated   |                |                |                |
| and set to +10 |                |                |                |
| dBm.           |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 5: For    |                |                |                |
| the 6.25kHz    |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| bandwidth, the |                |                |                |
| emissions      |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| shall be       |                |                |                |
| sufficiently   |                |                |                |
| power averaged |                |                |                |
| to ensure      |                |                |                |
| standard       |                |                |                |
| standard       |                |                |                |
| deviation \<   |                |                |                |
| 0.5 dB.        |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

As exceptions, up to five measurements with a level up to the applicable
requirements defined in table 5.11C.2a are permitted in each of the
bands, 925 MHz to 960 MHz and 1805 MHz to 1880 MHz for each UARFCN used
in the measurement. The reference is 3GPP TS 45.005 \[29\].

NOTE 2: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

5.11D Spurious Emissions for UL CLTD Activation state 2 and 3
-------------------------------------------------------------

Editor's note: For a transition period of two meeting cycles until
RAN\#70, the test requirements in version 11.6.0 of this specification
is allowed to be used for this test.

This clause is incomplete. The following aspects are either missing or
not yet determined:

-   Call Setup procedure needs update.

### 5.11D.1 Definition and applicability

Spurious emissions are emissions which are caused by unwanted
transmitter effects such as harmonics emission, parasitic emission,
intermediation products and frequency conversion products, but exclude
out of band emissions.

The frequency boundary and the detailed transitions of the limits
between the requirement for out band emissions and spectrum emissions
are based on ITU-R Recommendations SM.329.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL CLTD.

### 5.11D.2 Minimum Requirements

For UE configured in UL CLTD activation state 2 or activation state 3,
the spectrum emission requirements in sub-clause 5.11.2 apply at the
active transmit antenna connector.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.6.3.1C.

### 5.11D.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE spurious emissions do not exceed described value
shown in table 5.11D.1a and table 5.11D.1b.

Excess spurious emissions increase the interference to other systems.

### 5.11D.4 Method of test

##### 5.11D.4.1 Initial conditions {#d.4.1-initial-conditions-7 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.52.

2\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure in
TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause FFS with the following exception in the RADIO
BEARER SETUP messages in table 5.11D.1C. This exception allows the call
to be setup with initial UL CLTD activation state as state 2.

3\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 5.11D.4.2 Procedure {#d.4.2-procedure-7 .H6}

1\) Set and send continuously up power control commands to the UE until
the UE output power shall be maximum level.

2\) Sweep the spectrum analyzer (or equivalent equipment) over a
frequency range and measure the average power of spurious emission.

> 3\) SS sends radio bearer reconfiguration to move the UE to UL\_CLTD
> activation state 3.
>
> 4\) Repeat step 1 to 2 for activation state 3.

Table 5.11D.1c: Contents of Radio bearer setup message

  ---------------------------------- -------------- ---------
  Information Element                Value/remark   Version
  Uplink CLTD info FDD                              Rel-11
  \- CHOICE *Mode*                   New            
  \- Initial CLTD activation state   Second state   
  ---------------------------------- -------------- ---------

### 5.11D.5 Test requirements

The measured average power of spurious emission, derived in step 2),
shall not exceed the described value in tables 5.11D.2a, 5.11D.2b and
5.11D.2c.

These requirements are only applicable for frequencies, which are
greater than 12.5 MHz away from the UE centre carrier frequency.

For UE configured in UL CLTD activation state 2 or activation state 3,
the spectrum emission requirements apply at the active transmit antenna
connector.

Table 5.11D.2a: General spurious emissions test requirements

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- --------------------- --------
  Frequency Bandwidth                                                                           Measurement Bandwidth   Minimum requirement   Note
  9 kHz ≤ f \< 150 kHz                                                                          1 kHz                   −36 dBm               
  150 kHz ≤ f \< 30 MHz                                                                         10 kHz                  −36 dBm               
  30 MHz ≤ f \< 1 000 MHz                                                                       100 kHz                 −36 dBm               
  1 GHz ≤ f \< 12,75 GHz                                                                        1 MHz                   −30 dBm               
  12.75 GHz ≤ f \< 5^th^ harmonic of the upper frequency edge of the UL operating band in GHz   1 MHz                   −30 dBm               Note 1
  NOTE 1: Applies only for Band XXII.                                                                                                         
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- --------------------- --------

Table 5.11D.2b: Additional spurious emissions test requirements

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Operating Band | Frequency      | Measurement    | Minimum        |
|                | Bandwidth      | Bandwidth      | requirement    |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| I              | 461 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 466 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | **460 MHz ≤ f  | **1 MHz**      | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 465 MHz**    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 703 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 895 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 100 kHz        | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | 935 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1510.9 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz \<  | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | f \<1915.7 MHz |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2570 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| II             | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 758 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| III            | 461 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 466 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | **460 MHz ≤ f  | **1 MHz**      | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 465 MHz**    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 703 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 894 MHz        |                | note 5)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 100 kHz        | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | 935 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1496 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                | note 5)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1880 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1920 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 1915.7 MHz   |                | note 5)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2570 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| IV             | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| V              | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 703 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -27 dBm        |
|                | 869 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 869 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| VI             | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 860 MHz ≤ f \< | 1 MHz          | -37 dBm        |
|                | 875 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 875 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 890 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 945 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 960 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1915.7 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| VII            | 461 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 466 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | **460 MHz ≤ f  | **1 MHz**      | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 465 MHz**    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 756 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 758 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 791 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f    | 100 kHz\       | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 935 MHz      | 3.84 MHz       | note 1)\       |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz \< f  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1496 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1900 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1920 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -40 dBm        |
|                | 2620 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| VIII           | 461 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 466 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | **460 MHz ≤ f  | **1 MHz**      | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 465 MHz**    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 703 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 860 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -37 dBm (see   |
|                | 890 MHz        |                | note 4)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f    | 100 kHz        | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 935 MHz      |                | note 1)\       |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)\       |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1496 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                | note 4)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz \< f  | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 1830 MHz     |                | notes 1 and    |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       | 2)\            |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm (see   |
|                |                |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1830 MHz \< f  | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 1880 MHz     |                | note 1)\       |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1880MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1920 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                | note 4)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz \<f\< | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2570 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2640 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2640 MHz \< f  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 2690 MHz     |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| IX             | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859MHz ≤ f ≤   | 3.84 MHz       | -60dBm         |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 945 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 960 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60dBm         |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| X              | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f    | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 894 MHz      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2570 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XI             | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 860 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 890 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 945 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 960 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1915.7 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XII            | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XIII           | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756MHz         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 763 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -35 dBm (see   |
|                | 775 MHz        |                | note 3)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 793 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -35 dBm (see   |
|                | 805 MHz        |                | note 3)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XIV            | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 769 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -35 dBm (see   |
|                | 775 MHz        |                | note 3)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 799 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -35 dBm (see   |
|                | 805 MHz        |                | note 3)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XIX            | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 860 MHz ≤ f \< | 1 MHz          | -37 dBm        |
|                | 875 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 875 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 890 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 945 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 960 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XX             | 461 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 466 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | **460 MHz ≤ f  | **1 MHz**      | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 465 MHz**    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 753 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 788 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 100 kHz\       | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | 935 MHz        | 3.84 MHz       | note 1)\       |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz \< f  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1496 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | 3.84 MHz       |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 2620 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXI            | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 860 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 890 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 945 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 960 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 1 MHz          | -35 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤ f | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2545 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2575 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2595 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2645 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXII           | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 791 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 791 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 821 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 921 MHz ≤ f \< | 100 kHz        | -60 dBm (see   |
|                | 925 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 925 MHz ≤ f    | 100 kHz\       | -67 dBm (see   |
|                | ≤ 935 MHz      | 3.84 MHz       | note 1)\       |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 935 MHz \< f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -79 dBm (see   |
|                | 960 MHz        |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | ***3.84 MHz*** |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1452 MHz \< f  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1496 MHz     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 100 kHz        | -71 dBm (see   |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                | note 1)        |
|                |                | ***3.84 MHz*** |                |
|                |                |                | -60 dBm        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1880 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1920 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2620 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2570 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2620 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -40 dBm        |
|                | 3525 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3600 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -50 dBm        |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXV            | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 746 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 746 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 756 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 758 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 859 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2350 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2360 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3510 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 3590 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 3800 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXVI           | 617 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 652 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 462.5 MHz ≤ f  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 467.5 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 717 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 728 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 729 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 768 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 768 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 799 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 799 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -40 dBm        |
|                | 803 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 859 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 894 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 945 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 960 MHz        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1427 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1518 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1510.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1525 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 1559 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1805 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1880 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1839.9 MHz ≤ f | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | ≤ 1879.9 MHz   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1884.5 MHz ≤f  | 300 kHz        | -41 dBm        |
|                | ≤1915.7 MHz    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1930 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 1995 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 1995 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2020 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2010 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2025 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2170 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2170 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | 2200 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2300 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 3.84 MHz       | -60 dBm        |
|                | 2400 MHz       |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 2496 MHz ≤ f ≤ | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm (see   |
|                | 2690 MHz       |                | note 2)        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 3400 MHz ≤ f   | 1 MHz          | -50 dBm        |
|                | ≤3800 MHz      |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| NOTE 1: The    |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| are made on    |                |                |                |
| frequencies    |                |                |                |
| which are      |                |                |                |
| integer        |                |                |                |
| multiples of   |                |                |                |
| 200 kHz. As    |                |                |                |
| exceptions, up |                |                |                |
| to five        |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| with a level   |                |                |                |
| up to the      |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| requirements   |                |                |                |
| defined in     |                |                |                |
| table 5.11.1a  |                |                |                |
| are permitted  |                |                |                |
| for each       |                |                |                |
| UARFCN used in |                |                |                |
| the            |                |                |                |
| measurement.   |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 2: The    |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| are made on    |                |                |                |
| frequencies    |                |                |                |
| which are      |                |                |                |
| integer        |                |                |                |
| multiples of   |                |                |                |
| 200 kHz. As    |                |                |                |
| exceptions,    |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
| with a level   |                |                |                |
| up to the      |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| requirements   |                |                |                |
| defined in     |                |                |                |
| Table 5.11.1a  |                |                |                |
| are permitted  |                |                |                |
| for each       |                |                |                |
| UARFCN used in |                |                |                |
| the            |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| due to 2^nd^,  |                |                |                |
| 3^rd^ , or     |                |                |                |
| 4^th^ harmonic |                |                |                |
| spurious       |                |                |                |
| emissions.     |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 3: This   |                |                |                |
| requirement is |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| also for       |                |                |                |
| frequencies,   |                |                |                |
| which are      |                |                |                |
| between 2.5    |                |                |                |
| MHz and 12.5   |                |                |                |
| MHz away from  |                |                |                |
| the UE centre  |                |                |                |
| carrier        |                |                |                |
| frequency.     |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 4: This   |                |                |                |
| requirement is |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| only when      |                |                |                |
| transmission   |                |                |                |
| is made        |                |                |                |
| between 900MHz |                |                |                |
| to 915MHz.     |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 5: This   |                |                |                |
| requirement is |                |                |                |
| applicable     |                |                |                |
| only when      |                |                |                |
| transmission   |                |                |                |
| is made        |                |                |                |
| between 1744.9 |                |                |                |
| MHz to 1784.9  |                |                |                |
| MHz            |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

NOTE 1: The applicability of each line in Table 5.11.2b for UEs of
different releases is defined in TS 25.101 \[1\].

Table 5.11D.2c: Additional spurious emissions requirements

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| **Operating    | **Frequency    | **Measurement  | **Minimum      |
| Band**         | Bandwidth**    | Bandwidth**    | requirement**  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| XXVI           | 806 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -42 dBm (NOTE  |
|                | 813.5 MHz      |                | 1)             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 806 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -42 dBm (NOTE  |
|                | 816 MHz        |                | 2)             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 852 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 1 MHz          | -32 dBm (NOTE  |
|                | 859 MHz        |                | 3)             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | 851 MHz ≤ f ≤  | 6.25 kHz       | -53 dBm (NOTE  |
|                | 859 MHz        |                | 4)             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| NOTE 1:        |                |                |                |
| Applicable for |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≥  |                |                |                |
| 816.4 MHz. For |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≤  |                |                |                |
| 819.6 MHz the  |                |                |                |
| IE \"Maximum   |                |                |                |
| allowed UL TX  |                |                |                |
| power\" shall  |                |                |                |
| be indicated   |                |                |                |
| and set to +17 |                |                |                |
| dBm.           |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 2:        |                |                |                |
| Applicable for |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≥  |                |                |                |
| 819.4 MHz. For |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≤  |                |                |                |
| 822 MHz the IE |                |                |                |
| \"Maximum      |                |                |                |
| allowed UL TX  |                |                |                |
| power\" shall  |                |                |                |
| be indicated   |                |                |                |
| and set to +17 |                |                |                |
| dBm.           |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 3:        |                |                |                |
| Applicable for |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≤  |                |                |                |
| 846.6 MHz. For |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≥  |                |                |                |
| 842.4 MHz the  |                |                |                |
| IE \"Maximum   |                |                |                |
| allowed UL TX  |                |                |                |
| power\" shall  |                |                |                |
| be indicated   |                |                |                |
| and set to +10 |                |                |                |
| dBm.           |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 4:        |                |                |                |
| Applicable for |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≤  |                |                |                |
| 846.6 MHz. For |                |                |                |
| UE center      |                |                |                |
| frequencies ≥  |                |                |                |
| 842.4 MHz the  |                |                |                |
| IE \"Maximum   |                |                |                |
| allowed UL TX  |                |                |                |
| power\" shall  |                |                |                |
| be indicated   |                |                |                |
| and set to +10 |                |                |                |
| dBm.           |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 5: For    |                |                |                |
| the 6.25kHz    |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| bandwidth, the |                |                |                |
| emissions      |                |                |                |
| measurement    |                |                |                |
| shall be       |                |                |                |
| sufficiently   |                |                |                |
| power averaged |                |                |                |
| to ensure      |                |                |                |
| standard       |                |                |                |
| standard       |                |                |                |
| deviation \<   |                |                |                |
| 0.5 dB.        |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

As exceptions, up to five measurements with a level up to the applicable
requirements defined in table 5.11.2a are permitted in each of the
bands, 925 MHz to 960 MHz and 1805 MHz to 1880 MHz for each UARFCN used
in the measurement. The reference is 3GPP TS 45.005 \[29\].

NOTE 2: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

5.12 Transmit Intermodulation
-----------------------------

### 5.12.1 Definition and applicability

The transmit intermodulation performance is a measure of the capability
of the transmitter to inhibit the generation of signals in its non
linear elements caused by presence of the wanted signal and an
interfering signal reaching the transmitter via the antenna.

UE(s) transmitting in close vicinity of each other can produce
intermodulation products, which can fall into the UE, or Node B receive
band as an unwanted interfering signal. The UE transmit intermodulation
attenuation is defined by the ratio of the RRC filtered mean power of
the wanted signal to the RRC filtered mean power of the intermodulation
product when an interfering CW signal is added at a level below the
wanted signal.

The requirements and this test apply to all types of UTRA for the FDD
UE.

### 5.12.2 Minimum Requirements

The UE transmit intermodulation shall not exceed the described value in
table 5.12.1.

Table 5.12.1: Transmit Intermodulation

  ------------------------------------------------------ --------- ---------
  CW Signal Frequency Offset from Transmitting Carrier   5MHz      10MHz
  Interference CW Signal Level                           −40 dBc   
  Intermodulation Product                                −31 dBc   −41 dBc
  ------------------------------------------------------ --------- ---------

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.7.1.

### 5.12.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE transmit intermodulation does not exceed the
described value in table 5.12.1.

An excess transmit intermodulation increases transmission errors in the
up link own channel when other transmitter exists nearby.

### 5.12.4 Method of test

##### 5.12.4.1 Initial conditions {#initial-conditions-14 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.2.

2\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure in
TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.2.

3\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 5.12.4.2 Procedure {#procedure-14 .H6}

1\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE until
the UE output power shall be maximum level.

2\) Set the frequency of the CW generator to the offset 1 or offset 2 as
shown in table 5.12.2.

3\) Measure the RRC filtered mean power of the UE.

4\) Search the intermodulation product signal, then measure the RRC
filtered mean power of transmitting intermodulation, and calculate the
ratio with the power measured in step 3).

5\) Repeat the measurement with another tone offset.

### 5.12.5 Test requirements

The ratio derived in step 4), shall not exceed the described value in
table 5.12.2.

Table 5.12.2: Transmit Intermodulation

  ------------------------------------------------------ --------- ---------
  CW Signal Frequency Offset from Transmitting Carrier   5MHz      10MHz
  Interference CW Signal Level                           −40 dBc   
  Intermodulation Product                                -31 dBc   -41 dBc
  ------------------------------------------------------ --------- ---------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.12A Transmit Intermodulation for DC-HSUPA
-------------------------------------------

### 5.12A.1 Definition and applicability

The transmit intermodulation performance is a measure of the capability
of the transmitter to inhibit the generation of signals in its non
linear elements caused by presence of the wanted signal and an
interfering signal reaching the transmitter via the antenna.

The UE intermodulation attenuation is defined by the ratio of the sum of
the RRC filtered mean powers of the wanted signal on the assigned
carriers to the sum of the RRC filtered mean powers of the
intermodulation product on two adjacent carriers when an interfering CW
signal is added at a level below the wanted signal.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 9 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports HSDPA and Dual Cell
E-DCH.

### 5.12A.2 Minimum Requirements for DC-HSUPA

The requirement of transmitting intermodulation for a carrier spacing of
5 MHz is prescribed in Table 5.12A.1.

Table 5.12A.1: Transmit Intermodulation requirement for DC-HSUPA

  -------------------------------------- -------- --------
  Interference Signal Frequency Offset   10MHz    20MHz
  Interference CW Signal Level           -40dBc   
  Intermodulation Product                -31dBc   -41dBc
  -------------------------------------- -------- --------

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.7.1A.

### 5.12A.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE transmit intermodulation does not exceed the
described value in table 5.12A.2.

An excess transmit intermodulation increases transmission errors in the
up link when other transmitter exists nearby.

### 5.12A.4 Method of test

##### 5.12A.4.1 Initial conditions {#a.4.1-initial-conditions-11 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.42.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and parameters are specified in
Annex C.11A. The DL Reference Measurement Channel (FRC H-SET 3A, QPSK)
is specified in C.8.1.1.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.14.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping back HSDPA to E-DCH
according to procedure 7.3.14.3 in TS 34.108 \[3\] and start the
loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

##### 5.12A.4.2 Procedure {#a.4.2-procedure-11 .H6}

1\) Set the UE to maximum output power according to 5.2BA.4.2 steps 1 to
4 with the exception that only configuration \#3 from table 5.2BA.5A is
applied.

2\) Set the frequency of the CW generator to the first offset as shown
in table 5.12A.2.

3\) Measure the sum of the RRC filtered mean powers centred on each of
the two assigned channels.

4\) Search the intermodulation product signal and measure the RRC
filtered mean power of transmitting intermodulation.

5\) Calculate the ratio of the intermodulation product signal power
(step 4) with the wanted power (step 3).

6\) Repeat the measurement to both sides of the two assigned channels
and using the second tone offset.

### 5.12A.5 Test requirements

The ratio derived in step 4), shall not exceed the described value in
table 5.12A.2.

Table 5.12A.2: Transmit Intermodulation

  -------------------------------------- -------- --------
  Interference Signal Frequency Offset   10MHz    20MHz
  Interference CW Signal Level           -40dBc   
  Intermodulation Product                -31dBc   -41dBc
  -------------------------------------- -------- --------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

5.13 Transmit Modulation
------------------------

Transmit modulation defines the modulation quality for expected
in-channel RF transmissions from the UE. The requirements apply to all
transmissions including the PRACH/PCPCH pre-amble and message parts and
all other expected transmissions for release 99 and release 4 only. For
release 5 and later the requirements apply to all transmissions
including the PRACH pre-amble and message parts and all other expected
transmissions. In cases where the mean power of the RF signal is allowed
to change versus time e.g. PRACH, DPCH in compressed mode, change of
TFC, inner loop power control and for HSDPA transmissions with
non-constant HS-DPCCH code power, the EVM and Peak Code Domain Error
requirements do not apply during the 25 us period before and after the
nominal time when the mean power is expected to change.

### 5.13.1 Error Vector Magnitude (EVM)

#### 5.13.1.1 Definition and applicability

The Error Vector Magnitude is a measure of the difference between the
reference waveform and the measured waveform. This difference is called
the error vector. Both waveforms pass through a matched Root Raised
Cosine filter with bandwidth 3,84 MHz and roll-off α=0,22. Both
waveforms are then further modified by selecting the frequency, absolute
phase, absolute amplitude and chip clock timing so as to minimise the
error vector. The EVM result is defined as the square root of the ratio
of the mean error vector power to the mean reference power expressed as
a %.

For Release 99 and Release 4 the measurement interval is one timeslot.

For Release 5 and later releases where tests may include power changes,
the measurement interval is further clarified as being one timeslot
except when the mean power between slots is expected to change whereupon
the measurement interval is reduced by 25 μs at each end of the slot.
The requirements and this test apply to all types of UTRA for the FDD
UE.

#### 5.13.1.2 Minimum Requirements

The EVM shall not exceed 17,5 % for the parameters specified in table
5.13.1.

Table 5.13.1: Parameters for EVM

  ------------------------- ------------------- ------
  Parameter                 Level / Status      Unit
  Output power              ≥ −20               dBm
  Operating conditions      Normal conditions   
  Power control step size   1                   dB
  ------------------------- ------------------- ------

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.8.3.0.

#### 5.13.1.3 Test purpose

To verify that the EVM does not exceed 17,5 % for the specified
parameters in table 5.13.1.

An excess EVM increases transmission errors in the up link own channel.

#### 5.13.1.4 Method of test

##### 5.13.1.4.1 Initial conditions {#initial-conditions-15 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.1.

2\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure in
TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.2.

3\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 5.13.1.4.2 Procedure {#procedure-15 .H6}

1\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE until
the UE output power shall be maximum level.

2\) Measure the EVM using Global In-Channel Tx-Test (annex B).

3\) Set the power level of UE to -18dBm or send Down power control
commands (1dB step size should be used.) to the UE until UE output power
shall be -18dBm with ±2dB tolerance.

4\) Repeat step 2).

#### 5.13.1.5 Test requirements

The measured EVM, derived in step 2) and 4), shall not exceed 17,5 %.
for parameters specified in table 5.13.1 Parameters for EVM.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

### 5.13.1A Error Vector Magnitude (EVM) with HS-DPCCH

#### 5.13.1A.1 Definition and applicability

The Error Vector Magnitude is a measure of the difference between the
reference waveform and the measured waveform. This difference is called
the error vector. Both waveforms pass through a matched Root Raised
Cosine filter with bandwidth 3,84 MHz and roll-off α=0,22. Both
waveforms are then further modified by selecting the frequency, absolute
phase, absolute amplitude and chip clock timing so as to minimise the
error vector. The EVM result is defined as the square root of the ratio
of the mean error vector power to the mean reference power expressed as
a %.

The measurement interval is one timeslot except when the mean power
between slots is expected to change whereupon the measurement interval
is reduced by 25 μs at each end of the slot.

For signals containing more than one spreading code where the slot
alignment of the codes is not the same and the code power is varying,
the period over which the nominal mean power remains constant can be
less than one timeslot. For such time-varying signals it is not possible
to define EVM across one timeslot since this interval contains an
expected change in mean power, and the exact timing and trajectory of
the power change is not defined. For these signals, the EVM minimum
requirements apply only for intervals of at least one half timeslot
(less any 25μs transient periods) during which the nominal code power of
each individual code is constant.

NOTE: The reason for setting a lower limit for the EVM measurement
interval is that for any given impaired signal, the EVM would be
expected to improve for measurement intervals less than one timeslot
while the frequency error would be expected to degrade.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 5 only to all types of
UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA.

#### 5.13.1A.2 Minimum Requirements

The EVM shall not exceed 17.5 % for the parameters specified in table
5.13.1A.1. This is applicable for all values
of![](media/image12.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.25in"},![](media/image13.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in"
height="0.25in"}and![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.25in"
height="0.25in"} as specified in \[5\].

Table 5.13.1A.1: Parameters for EVM

+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
| Parameter         | Level / Status    | Unit              |       |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
| Output power      | ≥ −20             | dBm               |       |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
| Operating         | Normal conditions |                   |       |
| conditions        |                   |                   |       |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
| Power control     | 1                 | dB                |       |
| step size         |                   |                   |       |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
| Measurement       | PRACH             | 3904              | Chips |
| period^1^         |                   |                   |       |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                   | Any DPCH          | From 1280 to      |       |
|                   |                   | 2560^2^           |       |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
| NOTE 1: Less any  |                   |                   |       |
| 25μs transient    |                   |                   |       |
| periods           |                   |                   |       |
|                   |                   |                   |       |
| NOTE 2: The       |                   |                   |       |
| longest period    |                   |                   |       |
| over which the    |                   |                   |       |
| nominal power     |                   |                   |       |
| remains constant  |                   |                   |       |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.8.3.0.

#### 5.13.1A.3 Test purpose

To verify that the EVM does not exceed 17.5 % for the specified
parameters in table 5.13.1A.1 using the values of
![](media/image12.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.25in"},![](media/image13.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in"
height="0.25in"}and![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.25in"
height="0.25in"} specified in table C.10.1.4 for subtest 3.

#### 5.13.1A.4 Method of test

##### 5.13.1A.4.1 Initial conditions {#a.4.1-initial-conditions-12 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.1.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK version) are specified in Annex C.10.1 and
C.8.1.1.

3\) An HSDPA call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.6.
RF parameters are set up according to table E.5.1 and table E.5.10.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.13.1A.2. Set the
Default DPCH Offset Value according to the required HS-DPCCH slot offset
as specified in TS 25.331 \[8\] clause 8.6.6.14 and TS 25.211 \[19\].

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

Table 5.13.1A.2: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement\
of Error Vector Magnitude (EVM) with HS-DPCCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.13.1A.4.1              |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

##### 5.13.1A.4.2 Procedure {#a.4.2-procedure-12 .H6}

1\) Send the TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message defined in Annex
I to set the beta values according to table C.10.1.4 subtest 3 and the
DPCH frame offset according the HS-DPCCH half slot offset required for
measurements. This will create a signal with a repeat pattern of 12ms as
shown in Figure 5.13.1A.1. The Uplink DPCH Power Control Info shall
specify the Power Control Algorithm as algorithm 2 for interpreting TPC
commands.

2\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS such that the half slot
period with the highest output power for the defined 12ms sequence as
measured at the UE antenna connector is the maximum output as defined in
table 5.2A.2. Maintain this power level by sending alternating \"0\" and
\"1\" TPC commands in the downlink so as to satisfy the condition of
obtaining TPC\_cmd = 0.

3\) Start transmitting HSDPA Data.

4\) With reference to Figure 5.13.1A.1 measure the EVM using Global
In-Channel Tx-Test (annex B) during the last half slot period of the
ACK/NACK in subframe n+3 when the UE is at its maximum power in the 12ms
cycle (measurement point 3) and in the following half slot period when
the CQI is off (measurement point 4) and the UE is at its minimum power
in the cycle. Measure the EVM in the last half slot before subframe n
when the UE is at its minimum power (measurement point 1) and
immediately following in the first half slot of subframe n when the
ACK/NACK is transmitting and the UE is at its maximum power in the 12ms
cycle (measurement point 2). All measurements shall exclude the 25 us
transient periods at the beginning and end of each measurement period.

5\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS such that the half slot
period with the lowest output power for the defined 12ms sequence as
measured at the UE antenna connector is -18dBm with ±2dB tolerance.
Maintain this power level by sending alternating \"0\" and \"1\" TPC
commands in the downlink so as to satisfy the condition of obtaining
TPC\_cmd = 0.

6\) Repeat step 4).

![](media/image37.wmf){width="5.995138888888889in"
height="2.3006944444444444in"}

Figure 5.13.1A.1: HS-DPCCH on/off pattern showing measurement positions

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9 of TS 34.108 \[3\], except the
TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message which is defined in Annex I.
The test specific exception for the TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION
message is as follows:

  ------------------------------- --------------
  Information Element             Value/remark
  \- Ack-Nack repetition factor   1
  \- CQI repetition factor        1
  ------------------------------- --------------

#### 5.13.1A.5 Test requirements

The measured EVM, derived in steps 4) and 6), shall not exceed 17.5 %
for parameters specified in table 5.13.1A.1 parameters for EVM.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

### 5.13.1AA Error Vector Magnitude (EVM) and phase discontinuity with HS-DPCCH

#### 5.13.1AA.1 Definition and applicability

The Error Vector Magnitude is a measure of the difference between the
reference waveform and the measured waveform. This difference is called
the error vector. Both waveforms pass through a matched Root Raised
Cosine filter with bandwidth 3,84 MHz and roll-off α=0,22. Both
waveforms are then further modified by selecting the frequency, absolute
phase, absolute amplitude and chip clock timing so as to minimise the
error vector. The EVM result is defined as the square root of the ratio
of the mean error vector power to the mean reference power expressed as
a %.

The measurement interval is one timeslot except when the mean power
between slots is expected to change whereupon the measurement interval
is reduced by 25 μs at each end of the slot.

For signals containing more than one spreading code where the slot
alignment of the codes is not the same and the code power is varying,
the period over which the nominal mean power remains constant can be
less than one timeslot. For such time-varying signals it is not possible
to define EVM across one timeslot since this interval contains an
expected change in mean power, and the exact timing and trajectory of
the power change is not defined. For these signals, the EVM minimum
requirements apply only for intervals of at least one half timeslot
(less any 25μs transient periods) during which the nominal code power of
each individual code is constant.

NOTE: The reason for setting a lower limit for the EVM measurement
interval is that for any given impaired signal, the EVM would be
expected to improve for measurement intervals less than one timeslot
while the frequency error would be expected to degrade.

Phase discontinuity for HS-DPCCH is the change in phase due to the
transmission of the HS-DPCCH. In the case where the HS-DPCCH timeslot is
offset from the DPCCH timeslot, the period of evaluation of the phase
discontinuity shall be the DPCCH timeslot that contains the HS-DPCCH
slot boundary. The phase discontinuity for HS-DPCCH result is defined as
the difference between the absolute phase used to calculate the EVM for
that part of the DPCCH timeslot prior to the HS-DPCCH slot boundary, and
the absolute phase used to calculate the EVM for remaining part of the
DPCCH timeslot following the HS-DPCCH slot boundary. In all cases the
subslot EVM is measured excluding the transient periods of 25 μs.

Since subslot EVM is only defined for intervals of at least one half
timeslot, the phase discontinuity for HS-DPCCH is only defined for
non-aligned timeslots when the offset is 0.5 slots.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 6 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA.

#### 5.13.1AA.2 Minimum Requirements

The EVM shall not exceed 17.5 % for the parameters specified in table
5.13.1AA. This is applicable for all values
of![](media/image12.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.25in"},![](media/image13.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in"
height="0.25in"}and![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.25in"
height="0.25in"} as specified in \[5\].

Table 5.13.1AA.1: Parameters for EVM

+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
| Parameter         | Level / Status    | Unit              |       |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
| Output power      | ≥ −20             | dBm               |       |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
| Operating         | Normal conditions |                   |       |
| conditions        |                   |                   |       |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
| Power control     | 1                 | dB                |       |
| step size         |                   |                   |       |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
| Measurement       | PRACH             | 3904              | Chips |
| period^1^         |                   |                   |       |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                   | Any DPCH          | From 1280 to      |       |
|                   |                   | 2560^2^           |       |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
| NOTE 1: Less any  |                   |                   |       |
| 25μs transient    |                   |                   |       |
| periods           |                   |                   |       |
|                   |                   |                   |       |
| NOTE 2: The       |                   |                   |       |
| longest period    |                   |                   |       |
| over which the    |                   |                   |       |
| nominal power     |                   |                   |       |
| remains constant  |                   |                   |       |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+

The phase discontinuity for HS-DPCCH shall not exceed the value
specified in table 5.13.1AA.2 90% of the time. When calculating the
phase discontinuity, the requirements for frequency error and EVM in sub
clauses 6.3 and 6.8.2, of TS 25.101 \[1\] respectively shall be met.

Table 5.13.1AA.2: Phase discontinuity minimum requirement\
for HS-DPCCH at HS-DPCCH slot boundary

  ------------------------------------------------ ---------
  Phase discontinuity for HS-DPCCH Δθ in degrees   Δθ ≤ 30
  ------------------------------------------------ ---------

The normative reference for these requirements is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.8.3.0 and 6.8.5.1.

#### 5.13.1AA.3 Test purpose

To verify that the EVM does not exceed 17.5 % for the specified
parameters in table 5.13.1AA using the values of
![](media/image12.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.25in"},![](media/image13.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in"
height="0.25in"}and![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.25in"
height="0.25in"} specified in table C.10.1.4 for subtest 3.

To verify that HSDPA phase discontinuity does not exceed the values in
table 5.13.1AA.2.

NOTE: The statistical aspect (90% pass rate) of this minimum requirement
is not currently tested.

#### 5.13.1AA.4 Method of test

##### 5.13.1AA.4.1 Initial conditions {#aa.4.1-initial-conditions-4 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.1.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK version) are specified in Annex C.10.1 and
C.8.1.1.

3\) An HSDPA call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.6.
RF parameters are set up according to table E.5.1 and table E.5.10.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.13.1AA.3. Set the
Default DPCH Offset Value according to the required HS-DPCCH slot offset
as specified in TS 25.331 \[8\] clause 8.6.6.14 and TS 25.211 \[19\].

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

Table 5.13.1AA.3: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement\
of Error Vector Magnitude (EVM) with HS-DPCCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.13.1AA.4.1             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

##### 5.13.1AA.4.2 Procedure {#aa.4.2-procedure-4 .H6}

1\) Send the TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message defined in Annex
I to set the beta values according to table C.10.1.4 subtest 3 and the
DPCH frame offset according the HS-DPCCH half slot offset required for
measurements. This will create a signal with a repeat pattern of 12ms as
shown in Figure 5.13.1AA.1. The Uplink DPCH Power Control Info shall
specify the Power Control Algorithm as algorithm 2 for interpreting TPC
commands.

2\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS such that the half slot
period with the highest output power for the defined 12ms sequence as
measured at the UE antenna connector is the maximum output as defined in
table 5.2AA.2. Maintain this power level by sending alternating \"0\"
and \"1\" TPC commands in the downlink so as to satisfy the condition of
obtaining TPC\_cmd = 0.

3\) Start transmitting HSDPA Data.

4\) With reference to Figure 5.13.1AA.1 measure the EVM using Global
In-Channel Tx-Test (annex B) during the last half slot period of the
ACK/NACK in subframe n+3 when the UE is at its maximum power in the 12ms
cycle (measurement point 3) and in the following half slot period when
the CQI is off and the UE is at its minimum power in the cycle
(measurement point 4). Compute from these two EVM results the phase
discontinuity between the two half slot periods. Measure the EVM in the
last half slot before subframe n when the UE is at its minimum power
(measurement point 1) and immediately following in the first half slot
of subframe n when the ACK/NACK is transmitting and the UE is at its
maximum power in the 12ms cycle (measurement point 2). Compute from
these two EVM results the phase discontinuity between the two half slot
periods. All measurements shall exclude the 25 us transient periods at
the beginning and end of each measurement period.

5\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS such that the half slot
period with the lowest output power for the defined 12ms sequence as
measured at the UE antenna connector is -18dBm with ±2dB tolerance.
Maintain this power level by sending alternating \"0\" and \"1\" TPC
commands in the downlink so as to satisfy the condition of obtaining
TPC\_cmd = 0.

6\) Repeat step 4).

![](media/image38.wmf){width="5.995138888888889in"
height="2.3006944444444444in"}

Figure 5.13.1AA.1: HS-DPCCH on/off pattern showing measurement positions

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9 of TS 34.108 \[3\], except the
TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message which is defined in Annex I.
The test specific exception for the TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION
message is as follows:

  ------------------------------- --------------
  Information Element             Value/remark
  \- Ack-Nack repetition factor   1
  \- CQI repetition factor        1
  ------------------------------- --------------

#### 5.13.1AA.5 Test requirements

Table 5.13.1AA.4: Phase discontinuity test requirement for HS-DPCCH at
HS-DPCCH slot boundary

  ------------------------------------------------ ---------
  Phase discontinuity for HS-DPCCH Δθ in degrees   Δθ ≤ 36
  ------------------------------------------------ ---------

The measured EVM, derived in steps 4) and 6), shall not exceed 17.5 %
for parameters specified in table 5.13.1AA.1 parameters for EVM.

The measured phase discontinuity, derived in steps 4) and 6), shall not
exceed the value specified in table 5.13.1AA.4.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

### 5.13.1AB Error Vector Magnitude (EVM) and phase discontinuity with HS-DPCCH for OLTD

#### 5.13.1AB.1 Definition and applicability

The Error Vector Magnitude is a measure of the difference between the
reference waveform and the measured waveform. This difference is called
the error vector. Both waveforms pass through a matched Root Raised
Cosine filter with bandwidth 3,84 MHz and roll-off α=0,22. Both
waveforms are then further modified by selecting the frequency, absolute
phase, absolute amplitude and chip clock timing so as to minimise the
error vector. The EVM result is defined as the square root of the ratio
of the mean error vector power to the mean reference power expressed as
a %.

The measurement interval is one timeslot except when the mean power
between slots is expected to change whereupon the measurement interval
is reduced by 25 μs at each end of the slot.

For signals containing more than one spreading code where the slot
alignment of the codes is not the same and the code power is varying,
the period over which the nominal mean power remains constant can be
less than one timeslot. For such time-varying signals it is not possible
to define EVM across one timeslot since this interval contains an
expected change in mean power, and the exact timing and trajectory of
the power change is not defined. For these signals, the EVM minimum
requirements apply only for intervals of at least one half timeslot
(less any 25μs transient periods) during which the nominal code power of
each individual code is constant.

NOTE: The reason for setting a lower limit for the EVM measurement
interval is that for any given impaired signal, the EVM would be
expected to improve for measurement intervals less than one timeslot
while the frequency error would be expected to degrade.

Phase discontinuity for HS-DPCCH is the change in phase due to the
transmission of the HS-DPCCH. In the case where the HS-DPCCH timeslot is
offset from the DPCCH timeslot, the period of evaluation of the phase
discontinuity shall be the DPCCH timeslot that contains the HS-DPCCH
slot boundary. The phase discontinuity for HS-DPCCH result is defined as
the difference between the absolute phase used to calculate the EVM for
that part of the DPCCH timeslot prior to the HS-DPCCH slot boundary, and
the absolute phase used to calculate the EVM for remaining part of the
DPCCH timeslot following the HS-DPCCH slot boundary. In all cases the
subslot EVM is measured excluding the transient periods of 25 μs.

Since subslot EVM is only defined for intervals of at least one half
timeslot, the phase discontinuity for HS-DPCCH is only defined for
non-aligned timeslots when the offset is 0.5 slots.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL OLTD and HSDPA.

#### 5.13.1AB.2 Minimum Requirements

The EVM shall not exceed 17.5 % for the parameters specified in table
5.13.1AB.1 at each transmit antenna connector. This is applicable for
all values of![](media/image12.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.25in"},![](media/image13.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in"
height="0.25in"}and![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.25in"
height="0.25in"} as specified in \[5\].

Table 5.13.1AB.1: Parameters for Error Vector Magnitude for UL OLTD

+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Parameter        | Unit     | Level            |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| UE Output Power, | dBm      | ≥ -20            |                  |
| no 16QAM         |          |                  |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| UE Output Power, | dBm      | ≥ -30            |                  |
| 16QAM            |          |                  |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Operating        |          | Normal           |                  |
| conditions       |          | conditions       |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Power control    | dB       | 1                |                  |
| step size        |          |                  |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Measurement      | Any DPCH | Chips            | From 1280 to     |
| period\          |          |                  | 2560\            |
| (Note 1)         |          |                  | (Note 2)         |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Note 1: Less any |          |                  |                  |
| 25μs transient   |          |                  |                  |
| periods          |          |                  |                  |
|                  |          |                  |                  |
| Note 2: The      |          |                  |                  |
| longest period   |          |                  |                  |
| over which the   |          |                  |                  |
| nominal power    |          |                  |                  |
| remains constant |          |                  |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+

For UE with two transmit antenna connectors in UL OLTD operation, the
phase discontinuity for HS-DPCCH shall not exceed the value specified in
table 6.18 90% of the time for each transmit antenna connector. In
addition, the relative phase applied to the two transmit paths shall be
fixed during the phase discontinuity test. When calculating the phase
discontinuity, the requirements for frequency error and EVM in sub
clauses 6.3B and 6.8.2, respectively shall be met.

Table 5.13.1AB.2: Phase discontinuity minimum requirement\
for HS-DPCCH at HS-DPCCH slot boundary

  ------------------------------------------------ ---------
  Phase discontinuity for HS-DPCCH Δθ in degrees   Δθ ≤ 30
  ------------------------------------------------ ---------

The normative reference for these requirements is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.8.2.1B and 6.8.5.1A

#### 5.13.1AB.3 Test purpose

To verify that the EVM does not exceed 17.5 % for the specified
parameters in table 5.13.1AB using the values of
![](media/image12.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.25in"},![](media/image13.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in"
height="0.25in"}and![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.25in"
height="0.25in"} specified in table C.10.2.4 for subtest 3.

To verify that HSDPA phase discontinuity does not exceed the values in
table 5.13.1AB.2.

NOTE: The statistical aspect (90% pass rate) of this minimum requirement
is not currently tested.

#### 5.13.1AB.4 Method of test

##### 5.13.1AB.4.1 Initial conditions {#ab.4.1-initial-conditions-3 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK version) are specified in Annex C.10.2 and
C.8.1.1.

3\) An HSDPA call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.18.
RF parameters are set up according to table E.5.1 and table E.5.10.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.13.1AB.3. Set the
Default DPCH Offset Value according to the required HS-DPCCH slot offset
as specified in TS 25.331 \[8\] clause 8.6.6.14 and TS 25.211 \[19\].

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

Table 5.13.1AB.3: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement\
of Error Vector Magnitude (EVM) and phase discontinuity with HS-DPCCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.13.1AB.4.1             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

##### 5.13.1AB.4.2 Procedure {#ab.4.2-procedure-3 .H6}

1\) Send the TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message defined in Annex
I to set the beta values according to table C.10.2.4 subtest 3 and the
DPCH frame offset according the HS-DPCCH half slot offset required for
measurements. This will create a signal with a repeat pattern of 12ms as
shown in Figure 5.13.1AB.1. The Uplink DPCH Power Control Info shall
specify the Power Control Algorithm as algorithm 2 for interpreting TPC
commands.

2\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS such that the half slot
period with the highest output power for the defined 12ms sequence as
measured at the UE antenna connector is the maximum output as defined in
table 5.2AA.2. Maintain this power level by sending alternating \"0\"
and \"1\" TPC commands in the downlink so as to satisfy the condition of
obtaining TPC\_cmd = 0.

3\) Start transmitting HSDPA Data.

4\) With reference to Figure 5.13.1AB.1 measure the EVM at each antenna
connector using Global In-Channel Tx-Test (annex B) during the last half
slot period of the ACK/NACK in subframe n+3 when the UE is at its
maximum power in the 12ms cycle (measurement point 3) and in the
following half slot period when the CQI is off and the UE is at its
minimum power in the cycle (measurement point 4). Compute from these two
EVM results the phase discontinuity between the two half slot periods
for each antenna connector. Measure the EVM in the last half slot before
subframe n when the UE is at its minimum power (measurement point 1) and
immediately following in the first half slot of subframe n when the
ACK/NACK is transmitting and the UE is at its maximum power in the 12ms
cycle (measurement point 2). Compute from these two EVM results the
phase discontinuity between the two half slot periods for each antenna
connector. All measurements shall exclude the 25 us transient periods at
the beginning and end of each measurement period.

5\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS such that the half slot
period with the lowest output power for the defined 12ms sequence as
measured at the UE antenna connector is -18dBm with ±2dB tolerance.
Maintain this power level by sending alternating \"0\" and \"1\" TPC
commands in the downlink so as to satisfy the condition of obtaining
TPC\_cmd = 0.

6\) Repeat step 4).

![](media/image38.wmf){width="5.995138888888889in"
height="2.3006944444444444in"}

Figure 5.13.1AB.1: HS-DPCCH on/off pattern showing measurement positions

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9 of TS 34.108 \[3\], except the
TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message which is defined in Annex I.
The test specific exception for the TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION
message is as follows:

  ------------------------------- --------------
  Information Element             Value/remark
  \- Ack-Nack repetition factor   1
  \- CQI repetition factor        1
  ------------------------------- --------------

#### 5.13.1AB.5 Test requirements

Table 5.13.1AB.4: Phase discontinuity test requirement for HS-DPCCH at
HS-DPCCH slot boundary

  ------------------------------------------------ ---------
  Phase discontinuity for HS-DPCCH Δθ in degrees   Δθ ≤ 36
  ------------------------------------------------ ---------

The measured EVM at each antenna connector, derived in steps 4) and 6),
shall not exceed 17.5 % for parameters specified in table 5.13.1AB.1
parameters for EVM.

The measured phase discontinuity for each antenna connector, derived in
steps 4) and 6), shall not exceed the value specified in table
5.13.1AB.4.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

### 5.13.1AB Error Vector Magnitude (EVM) and phase discontinuity with HS-DPCCH for OLTD

TBD

### 5.13.1AC Error Vector Magnitude (EVM) and phase discontinuity with HS-DPCCH for UL CLTD Activation state 1

#### 5.13.1AC.1 Definition and applicability

The Error Vector Magnitude is a measure of the difference between the
reference waveform and the measured waveform. This difference is called
the error vector. Both waveforms pass through a matched Root Raised
Cosine filter with bandwidth 3,84 MHz and roll-off α=0,22. Both
waveforms are then further modified by selecting the frequency, absolute
phase, absolute amplitude and chip clock timing so as to minimise the
error vector. The EVM result is defined as the square root of the ratio
of the mean error vector power to the mean reference power expressed as
a %.

The measurement interval is one timeslot except when the mean power
between slots is expected to change whereupon the measurement interval
is reduced by 25 μs at each end of the slot.

For signals containing more than one spreading code where the slot
alignment of the codes is not the same and the code power is varying,
the period over which the nominal mean power remains constant can be
less than one timeslot. For such time-varying signals it is not possible
to define EVM across one timeslot since this interval contains an
expected change in mean power, and the exact timing and trajectory of
the power change is not defined. For these signals, the EVM minimum
requirements apply only for intervals of at least one half timeslot
(less any 25μs transient periods) during which the nominal code power of
each individual code is constant.

NOTE: The reason for setting a lower limit for the EVM measurement
interval is that for any given impaired signal, the EVM would be
expected to improve for measurement intervals less than one timeslot
while the frequency error would be expected to degrade.

Phase discontinuity for HS-DPCCH is the change in phase due to the
transmission of the HS-DPCCH. In the case where the HS-DPCCH timeslot is
offset from the DPCCH timeslot, the period of evaluation of the phase
discontinuity shall be the DPCCH timeslot that contains the HS-DPCCH
slot boundary. The phase discontinuity for HS-DPCCH result is defined as
the difference between the absolute phase used to calculate the EVM for
that part of the DPCCH timeslot prior to the HS-DPCCH slot boundary, and
the absolute phase used to calculate the EVM for remaining part of the
DPCCH timeslot following the HS-DPCCH slot boundary. In all cases the
subslot EVM is measured excluding the transient periods of 25 μs.

Since subslot EVM is only defined for intervals of at least one half
timeslot, the phase discontinuity for HS-DPCCH is only defined for
non-aligned timeslots when the offset is 0.5 slots.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL CLTD and HSDPA.

#### 5.13.1AC.2 Minimum Requirements

The EVM shall not exceed 17.5 % for the parameters specified in table
5.13.1AC.1 at each transmit antenna connector. This is applicable for
all values of![](media/image12.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.25in"},![](media/image13.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in"
height="0.25in"}and![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.25in"
height="0.25in"} as specified in \[5\].

Table 5.13.1AC.1: Parameters for Error Vector Magnitude for UL CLTD

+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Parameter        | Unit     | Level            |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| UE Output Power, | dBm      | ≥ -20            |                  |
| no 16QAM         |          |                  |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| UE Output Power, | dBm      | ≥ -30            |                  |
| 16QAM            |          |                  |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Operating        |          | Normal           |                  |
| conditions       |          | conditions       |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Power control    | dB       | 1                |                  |
| step size        |          |                  |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Measurement      | Any DPCH | Chips            | From 1280 to     |
| period\          |          |                  | 2560\            |
| (Note 1)         |          |                  | (Note 2)         |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Note 1: Less any |          |                  |                  |
| 25μs transient   |          |                  |                  |
| periods          |          |                  |                  |
|                  |          |                  |                  |
| Note 2: The      |          |                  |                  |
| longest period   |          |                  |                  |
| over which the   |          |                  |                  |
| nominal power    |          |                  |                  |
| remains constant |          |                  |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+

For UE with two active transmit antenna connectors in UL CLTD activation
state 1, the phase discontinuity for HS-DPCCH shall not exceed the value
specified in table 5.13.1AC.2 90% of the time for each transmit antenna
connector. In addition, TPI applied to the two transmit paths shall be
fixed during the phase discontinuity test. When calculating the phase
discontinuity, the requirements for frequency error and EVM in sub
clauses 6.3C and 6.8.2 of TS 25.101 \[1\] respectively shall be met.

Table 5.13.1AC.2: Phase discontinuity minimum requirement\
for HS-DPCCH at HS-DPCCH slot boundary

  ------------------------------------------------ ---------
  Phase discontinuity for HS-DPCCH Δθ in degrees   Δθ ≤ 30
  ------------------------------------------------ ---------

The normative reference for these requirements is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.8.2.1C and 6.8.5.1B

#### 5.13.1AC.3 Test purpose

To verify that the EVM does not exceed 17.5 % for the specified
parameters in table 5.13.1AC using the values of
![](media/image12.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.25in"},![](media/image13.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in"
height="0.25in"}and![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.25in"
height="0.25in"} specified in table C.10.2.4 for subtest 3.

To verify that HSDPA phase discontinuity does not exceed the values in
table 5.13.1AC.2.

NOTE: The statistical aspect (90% pass rate) of this minimum requirement
is not currently tested.

#### 5.13.1AC.4 Method of test

##### 5.13.1AC.4.1 Initial conditions {#ac.4.1-initial-conditions-3 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK version) are specified in Annex C.10.2 and
C.8.1.1.

3\) An HSDPA call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.17.
RF parameters are set up according to table E.5.1 and table E.5.10.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.13.1AC.3. Set the
Default DPCH Offset Value according to the required HS-DPCCH slot offset
as specified in TS 25.331 \[8\] clause 8.6.6.14 and TS 25.211 \[19\].

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

Table 5.13.1AC.3: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement\
of Error Vector Magnitude (EVM) and phase discontinuity with HS-DPCCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.13.1AC.4.1             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

##### 5.13.1AC.4.2 Procedure {#ac.4.2-procedure-3 .H6}

1\) Send the TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message defined in Annex
I to set the beta values according to table C.10.2.4 subtest 3 and the
DPCH frame offset according the HS-DPCCH half slot offset required for
measurements. This will create a signal with a repeat pattern of 12ms as
shown in Figure 5.13.1AC.1. The Uplink DPCH Power Control Info shall
specify the Power Control Algorithm as algorithm 2 for interpreting TPC
commands.

2\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS such that the half slot
period with the highest output power for the defined 12ms sequence as
measured at the UE antenna connector is the maximum output as defined in
table 5.2AA.2. Maintain this power level by sending alternating \"0\"
and \"1\" TPC commands in the downlink so as to satisfy the condition of
obtaining TPC\_cmd = 0.

3\) Start transmitting HSDPA Data.

4\) With reference to Figure 5.13.1AC.1 measure the EVM at each antenna
connector using Global In-Channel Tx-Test (annex B) during the last half
slot period of the ACK/NACK in subframe n+3 when the UE is at its
maximum power in the 12ms cycle (measurement point 3) and in the
following half slot period when the CQI is off and the UE is at its
minimum power in the cycle (measurement point 4). Compute from these two
EVM results the phase discontinuity between the two half slot periods
for each antenna connector. Measure the EVM in the last half slot before
subframe n when the UE is at its minimum power (measurement point 1) and
immediately following in the first half slot of subframe n when the
ACK/NACK is transmitting and the UE is at its maximum power in the 12ms
cycle (measurement point 2). Compute from these two EVM results the
phase discontinuity between the two half slot periods for each antenna
connector. All measurements shall exclude the 25 us transient periods at
the beginning and end of each measurement period.

5\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS such that the half slot
period with the lowest output power for the defined 12ms sequence as
measured at the UE antenna connector is -18dBm with ±2dB tolerance.
Maintain this power level by sending alternating \"0\" and \"1\" TPC
commands in the downlink so as to satisfy the condition of obtaining
TPC\_cmd = 0.

6\) Repeat step 4).

![](media/image38.wmf){width="5.995138888888889in"
height="2.3006944444444444in"}

Figure 5.13.1AC.1: HS-DPCCH on/off pattern showing measurement positions

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9 of TS 34.108 \[3\], except the
TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message which is defined in Annex I.
The test specific exception for the TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION
message is as follows:

  ------------------------------- --------------
  Information Element             Value/remark
  \- Ack-Nack repetition factor   1
  \- CQI repetition factor        1
  ------------------------------- --------------

#### 5.13.1AC.5 Test requirements

Table 5.13.1AC.4: Phase discontinuity test requirement for HS-DPCCH at
HS-DPCCH slot boundary

  ------------------------------------------------ ---------
  Phase discontinuity for HS-DPCCH Δθ in degrees   Δθ ≤ 36
  ------------------------------------------------ ---------

The measured EVM at each antenna connector, derived in steps 4) and 6),
shall not exceed 17.5 % for parameters specified in table 5.13.1AC.1
parameters for EVM.

The measured phase discontinuity for each antenna connector, derived in
steps 4) and 6), shall not exceed the value specified in table
5.13.1AC.4.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

### 5.13.1AD Error Vector Magnitude (EVM) and phase discontinuity with HS-DPCCH for UL CLTD Activation state 2 and 3

#### 5.13.1AD.1 Definition and applicability

The Error Vector Magnitude is a measure of the difference between the
reference waveform and the measured waveform. This difference is called
the error vector. Both waveforms pass through a matched Root Raised
Cosine filter with bandwidth 3,84 MHz and roll-off α=0,22. Both
waveforms are then further modified by selecting the frequency, absolute
phase, absolute amplitude and chip clock timing so as to minimise the
error vector. The EVM result is defined as the square root of the ratio
of the mean error vector power to the mean reference power expressed as
a %.

The measurement interval is one timeslot except when the mean power
between slots is expected to change whereupon the measurement interval
is reduced by 25 μs at each end of the slot.

For signals containing more than one spreading code where the slot
alignment of the codes is not the same and the code power is varying,
the period over which the nominal mean power remains constant can be
less than one timeslot. For such time-varying signals it is not possible
to define EVM across one timeslot since this interval contains an
expected change in mean power, and the exact timing and trajectory of
the power change is not defined. For these signals, the EVM minimum
requirements apply only for intervals of at least one half timeslot
(less any 25μs transient periods) during which the nominal code power of
each individual code is constant.

NOTE: The reason for setting a lower limit for the EVM measurement
interval is that for any given impaired signal, the EVM would be
expected to improve for measurement intervals less than one timeslot
while the frequency error would be expected to degrade.

Phase discontinuity for HS-DPCCH is the change in phase due to the
transmission of the HS-DPCCH. In the case where the HS-DPCCH timeslot is
offset from the DPCCH timeslot, the period of evaluation of the phase
discontinuity shall be the DPCCH timeslot that contains the HS-DPCCH
slot boundary. The phase discontinuity for HS-DPCCH result is defined as
the difference between the absolute phase used to calculate the EVM for
that part of the DPCCH timeslot prior to the HS-DPCCH slot boundary, and
the absolute phase used to calculate the EVM for remaining part of the
DPCCH timeslot following the HS-DPCCH slot boundary. In all cases the
subslot EVM is measured excluding the transient periods of 25 μs.

Since subslot EVM is only defined for intervals of at least one half
timeslot, the phase discontinuity for HS-DPCCH is only defined for
non-aligned timeslots when the offset is 0.5 slots.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 11 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that supports UL CLTD and HSDPA.

#### 5.13.1AD.2 Minimum Requirements

The EVM shall not exceed 17.5 % for the parameters specified in table
5.13.1AD.1 at each transmit antenna connector. This is applicable for
all values of![](media/image12.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.25in"},![](media/image13.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in"
height="0.25in"}and![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.25in"
height="0.25in"} as specified in \[5\].

Table 5.13.1AD.1: Parameters for Error Vector Magnitude for UL CLTD

+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Parameter        | Unit     | Level            |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| UE Output Power, | dBm      | ≥ -20            |                  |
| no 16QAM         |          |                  |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| UE Output Power, | dBm      | ≥ -30            |                  |
| 16QAM            |          |                  |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Operating        |          | Normal           |                  |
| conditions       |          | conditions       |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Power control    | dB       | 1                |                  |
| step size        |          |                  |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Measurement      | Any DPCH | Chips            | From 1280 to     |
| period\          |          |                  | 2560\            |
| (Note 1)         |          |                  | (Note 2)         |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Note 1: Less any |          |                  |                  |
| 25μs transient   |          |                  |                  |
| periods          |          |                  |                  |
|                  |          |                  |                  |
| Note 2: The      |          |                  |                  |
| longest period   |          |                  |                  |
| over which the   |          |                  |                  |
| nominal power    |          |                  |                  |
| remains constant |          |                  |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+

For UE configured in UL CLTD activation state 2 or activation state 3,
the phase discontinuity for HS-DPCCH shall not exceed the value
specified in table 5.13.1AD.2 90% of the time for at the active transmit
antenna connector. When calculating the phase discontinuity, the
requirements for frequency error and EVM in sub clauses 6.3C and 6.8.2
of TS 25.101 \[1\] respectively shall be met.

Table 5.13.1AD.2: Phase discontinuity minimum requirement\
for HS-DPCCH at HS-DPCCH slot boundary

  ------------------------------------------------ ---------
  Phase discontinuity for HS-DPCCH Δθ in degrees   Δθ ≤ 30
  ------------------------------------------------ ---------

The normative reference for these requirements is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.8.2.1C and 6.8.5.1B

#### 5.13.1AD.3 Test purpose

To verify that the EVM does not exceed 17.5 % for the specified
parameters in table 5.13.1AD using the values of
![](media/image12.wmf){width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.25in"},![](media/image13.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in"
height="0.25in"}and![](media/image14.wmf){width="0.25in"
height="0.25in"} specified in table C.10.2.4 for subtest 3.

To verify that HSDPA phase discontinuity does not exceed the values in
table 5.13.1AD.2.

NOTE: The statistical aspect (90% pass rate) of this minimum requirement
is not currently tested.

#### 5.13.1AD.4 Method of test

##### 5.13.1AD.4.1 Initial conditions {#ad.4.1-initial-conditions-1 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.52.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK version) are specified in Annex C.10.2 and
C.8.1.1.

3\) An HSDPA call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.17
with the following exception in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages in table
5.13.1AD.4. This exception allows the call to be setup with initial UL
CLTD activation state as state 2. RF parameters are set up according to
table E.5.1 and table E.5.10. Settings for the serving cell are defined
in table 5.13.1AD.3. Set the Default DPCH Offset Value according to the
required HS-DPCCH slot offset as specified in TS 25.331 \[8\] clause
8.6.6.14 and TS 25.211 \[19\].

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

Table 5.13.1AD.3: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement\
of Error Vector Magnitude (EVM) and phase discontinuity with HS-DPCCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.13.1AD.4.1             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

Table 5.13.1AD.4: Contents of Radio bearer setup message

  ---------------------------------- -------------- ---------
  Information Element                Value/remark   Version
  Uplink CLTD info FDD                              Rel-11
  \- CHOICE *Mode*                   New            
  \- Initial CLTD activation state   Second state   
  ---------------------------------- -------------- ---------

##### 5.13.1AD.4.2 Procedure {#ad.4.2-procedure-1 .H6}

1\) Send the TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message defined in Annex
I to set the beta values according to table C.10.2.4 subtest 3 and the
DPCH frame offset according the HS-DPCCH half slot offset required for
measurements. This will create a signal with a repeat pattern of 12ms as
shown in Figure 5.13.1AD.1. The Uplink DPCH Power Control Info shall
specify the Power Control Algorithm as algorithm 2 for interpreting TPC
commands.

2\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS such that the half slot
period with the highest output power for the defined 12ms sequence as
measured at the UE antenna connector is the maximum output as defined in
table 5.2AA.2. Maintain this power level by sending alternating \"0\"
and \"1\" TPC commands in the downlink so as to satisfy the condition of
obtaining TPC\_cmd = 0.

3\) Start transmitting HSDPA Data.

4\) With reference to Figure 5.13.1AD.1 measure the EVM at the active
antenna connector using Global In-Channel Tx-Test (annex B) during the
last half slot period of the ACK/NACK in subframe n+3 when the UE is at
its maximum power in the 12ms cycle (measurement point 3) and in the
following half slot period when the CQI is off and the UE is at its
minimum power in the cycle (measurement point 4). Compute from these two
EVM results the phase discontinuity between the two half slot periods
for the active antenna connector. Measure the EVM in the last half slot
before subframe n when the UE is at its minimum power (measurement point
1) and immediately following in the first half slot of subframe n when
the ACK/NACK is transmitting and the UE is at its maximum power in the
12ms cycle (measurement point 2). Compute from these two EVM results the
phase discontinuity between the two half slot periods for the active
antenna connector. All measurements shall exclude the 25 us transient
periods at the beginning and end of each measurement period.

5\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS such that the half slot
period with the lowest output power for the defined 12ms sequence as
measured at the UE antenna connector is -18dBm with ±2dB tolerance.
Maintain this power level by sending alternating \"0\" and \"1\" TPC
commands in the downlink so as to satisfy the condition of obtaining
TPC\_cmd = 0.

6\) Repeat step 4).

7\) SS sends a HS-SCCH order now to move the UE in UL\_CLTD activation
state 3.

8\) Repeat steps 1 to 7 for activation state 3.

![](media/image38.wmf){width="5.995138888888889in"
height="2.3006944444444444in"}

Figure 5.13.1AD.1: HS-DPCCH on/off pattern showing measurement positions

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9 of TS 34.108 \[3\], except the
TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message which is defined in Annex I.
The test specific exception for the TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION
message is as follows:

  ------------------------------- --------------
  Information Element             Value/remark
  \- Ack-Nack repetition factor   1
  \- CQI repetition factor        1
  ------------------------------- --------------

#### 5.13.1AD.5 Test requirements

Table 5.13.1AD.5: Phase discontinuity test requirement for HS-DPCCH at
HS-DPCCH slot boundary

  ------------------------------------------------ ---------
  Phase discontinuity for HS-DPCCH Δθ in degrees   Δθ ≤ 36
  ------------------------------------------------ ---------

The measured EVM at the active antenna connector, derived in steps 4)
and 6), shall not exceed 17.5 % for parameters specified in table
5.13.1AD.1 parameters for EVM.

The measured phase discontinuity for the active antenna connector,
derived in steps 4) and 6), shall not exceed the value specified in
table 5.13.1AD.5.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

### 5.13.1AAA EVM and IQ origin offset for HS-DPCCH and E-DCH with 16 QAM

#### 5.13.1AAA.1 Definition and applicability

The Error Vector Magnitude is a measure of the difference between the
reference waveform and the measured waveform. This difference is called
the error vector. Both waveforms pass through a matched Root Raised
Cosine filter with bandwidth 3,84 MHz and roll-off α=0,22. Both
waveforms are then further modified by selecting the frequency, absolute
phase, absolute amplitude and chip clock timing so as to minimise the
error vector. The EVM result is defined as the square root of the ratio
of the mean error vector power to the mean reference power expressed as
a %. The measurement interval is one timeslot except when the mean power
between slots is expected to change whereupon the measurement interval
is reduced by 25 μs at each end of the slot. For the PRACH preamble the
measurement interval is 4096 chips less 25 μs at each end of the burst
(3904 chips).

When the UE uses 16QAM modulation on any of the uplink code channels,
the error minimization step also includes selecting an IQ origin offset
besides selecting the frequency, absolute phase, absolute amplitude and
chip clock timing to minimise the error vector. The IQ origin offset
shall be removed from the evaluated signal before calculating the EVM;
however, the removed relative IQ origin offset power (relative carrier
leakage power) also has to satisfy the applicable requirement.

For signals containing more than one spreading code where the slot
alignment of the codes is not the same and the code power is varying,
the period over which the nominal mean power remains constant can be
less than one timeslot. For such time-varying signals it is not possible
to define EVM across one timeslot since this interval contains an
expected change in mean power, and the exact timing and trajectory of
the power change is not defined. For these signals, the EVM minimum
requirements apply only for intervals of at least one half timeslot
(less any 25μs transient periods) during which the nominal code power of
each individual code is constant.

NOTE: The reason for setting a lower limit for the EVM measurement
interval is that for any given impaired signal, the EVM would be
expected to improve for measurement intervals less than one timeslot
while the frequency error would be expected to degrade.

The requirements apply for Release 7 and later releases to all types of
UTRA for the FDD UE that support E-DCH 16 QAM UE capability category 7.
This test applies only to UE that support HSDPA and E-DCH.

#### 5.13.1AAA.2 Minimum requirement

When 16QAM modulation is not used on any of the uplink code channels,
the Error Vector Magnitude shall not exceed 17.5 %. This is tested in
5.13.1A.

When 16QAM modulation is used on any of the uplink code channels, the
modulation accuracy requirement shall meet one or both of the following
requirements:

1\. The Error Vector Magnitude does not exceed 14 %. This is not tested

2\. The Relative Code Domain Error requirements are met. This is tested
in 5.13.2C

When 16QAM modulation is used on any of the uplink code channels, the
relative carrier leakage power (IQ origin offset power) shall not exceed
the values specified in Table 5.13.1AAA.2

The requirements are applicable for all values of β~c~, β~d~, β~hs~,
β~ec~ and β~ed~ as specified in \[8\].

Table 5.13.1AAA.1: Parameters for IQ origin offset

+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Parameter        | Unit     | Level            |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| UE Output Power, | dBm      | ≥ -30            |                  |
| 16QAM            |          |                  |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Operating        |          | Normal           |                  |
| conditions       |          | conditions       |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Power control    | dB       | 1                |                  |
| step size        |          |                  |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Measurement      | PRACH    | Chips            | 3904             |
| period\          |          |                  |                  |
| (Note 1)         |          |                  |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
|                  | Any DPCH |                  | From 1280 to     |
|                  |          |                  | 2560\            |
|                  |          |                  | (Note 2)         |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| NOTE 1: Less any |          |                  |                  |
| 25μs transient   |          |                  |                  |
| periods          |          |                  |                  |
|                  |          |                  |                  |
| NOTE 2: The      |          |                  |                  |
| longest period   |          |                  |                  |
| over which the   |          |                  |                  |
| nominal power    |          |                  |                  |
| remains constant |          |                  |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+

Table 5.13.1AAA.2: Relative Carrier Leakage Power

  --------------------------- -------------------------------------
  UE Transmitted Mean Power   Relative Carrier Leakage Power (dB)
  P ≥ -30 dBm                 \< -17
  --------------------------- -------------------------------------

#### 5.13.1AAA.3 Test purpose

To verify that the IQ offset does not exceed the values in table
5.13.1AAA.6 for the specified parameters in Table 5.13.1AAA.1 and for
the beta values defined in table C.11.1.4.

#### 5.13.1AAA.4 Method of test

##### 5.13.1AAA.4.1 Initial conditions {#aaa.4.1-initial-conditions .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.1.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the DL Fixed Reference
Channels are specified in Annex C.11.1 and C. 11.2

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.9, with the
following exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages. These
exceptions allow the beta values to be set according to table C.11.1.4
and each UL physical channel to be at constant power at the start of the
measurement. RF parameters are set up according to table E.5A.1.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.13.1AAA.5. Uplink
SRB for DCCH mapped on E-DCH and downlink SRB for DCCH on DCH. E-DCH is
configured with 2ms TTI.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping back HSDPA to E-DCH
and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.13.1AAA.3: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA) for Sub-test 1

  -------------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element              Value/Remark
  E-DCH info                       Uplink DPCH info
  \- E-DPCCH info                  
  \- E-DPDCH power interpolation   FALSE
  \- E-DPDCH info                  
  \- E-TFCI Table index            2
  \- Reference E-TFCIs             3 E-TFCIs
  \- Reference E-TFCI              105
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO           12
  \- Reference E-TFCI              116
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO           14
  \- Reference E-TFCI              127
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO           16
  \- Max Channelisation Codes      SF4x2 and SF2x2
  -------------------------------- ------------------

Table 5.13.1AAA.4: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM
(E-DCH and HSDPA)

  --------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------
  Information Element                     Value/Remark
  CHOICE channel requirement              Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm              Algorithm2
  \- ∆ACK                                 Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.4
  \- ∆NACK                                Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.4
  \- Ack-Nack repetition factor           3 (required for continuous HS-DPCCH signal)
  E-DCH info                              
  \- E-DPCCH info                         
  \- E-DPCCH/DPCCH power offset           Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.4
  \- E-TFC Boost Info                     
  \- E-TFCI boost                         Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.4
  \- Delta T2TP                           12 dB
  \- UL 16QAM settings                    
  \- BetaEd gain E-AGCH table selection   0
  Downlink HS-PDSCH Information           
  **- Measurement Feedback Info**         
  \- CQI Feedback cycle, k                4 ms
  \- CQI repetition factor                2 (required for continuous HS-DPCCH signal)
  \- ∆CQI                                 Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.4
  --------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------

Table 5.13.1AAA.5: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement
of IQ origin offset

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.13.1AAA.4.1            |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

##### 5.13.1AAA.4.2 Procedure {#aaa.4.2-procedure .H6}

> 1\) Set the Absolute Grant according to Table C.11.1.4.

2\) The SS starts transmitting HSDPA and the UE loops the received data
back on E-DCH.

> 3\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS to set the output power
> of the UE to be in the range -28 dBm ± 2 dB.
>
> 4\) Confirm that the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is equal to the
> target E-TFCI in Table C.11.1.4. If the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE
> is not equal to the target E-TFCI, then fail the UE.
>
> 5\) Send alternating \"0\" and \"1\" TPC commands in the downlink so
> as to satisfy the condition of obtaining TPC\_cmd = 0.

6\) Measure Relative Carrier Leakage Power (IQ origin offset) according
Annex B of the composite signal.

#### 5.13.1AAA.5 Test requirements

The Relative Carrier Leakage Power shall not exceed the value given in
table 5.13.1AAA.6.

Table 5.13.1AAA.6: Relative Carrier Leakage Power

  --------------------------- -------------------------------------
  UE Transmitted Mean Power   Relative Carrier Leakage Power (dB)
  -28 dBm                     \<-16.5
  --------------------------- -------------------------------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

### 5.13.2 Peak code domain error

#### 5.13.2.1 Definition and applicability

The Peak Code Domain Error is computed by projecting power of the error
vector (as defined in clause 5.13.1.1) onto the code domain at a
specific spreading factor. The Code Domain Error for every code in the
domain is defined as the ratio of the mean power of the projection onto
that code, to the mean power of the composite reference waveform
expressed in dB. The Peak Code Domain Error is defined as the maximum
value for the Code Domain Error for all codes.

For Release 99 and Release 4 the measurement interval is one timeslot.

For Release 5 and later releases where tests may include power changes,
the measurement interval is further clarified as being one timeslot
except when the mean power between slots is expected to change whereupon
the measurement interval is reduced by 25 μs at each end of the slot.

The requirements and this test apply only to the UE in which the
multi-code DPDCH transmission is provided and therefore does not apply
for the PRACH and PCPCH preamble and message parts for R99 and Release 4
only or the PRACH preamble and message parts for Release 5 and later.

#### 5.13.2.2 Minimum Requirements

The peak code domain error shall not exceed -15 dB at spreading factor 4
for the parameters specified in table 5.13.3.The requirements are
defined using the UL reference measurement channel (768 kbps) specified
in clause C.2.5.

Table 5.13.3: Parameters for Peak code domain error

  ------------------------- ------------------- ------
  Parameter                 Level / Status      Unit
  Output power              ≥ −20               dBm
  Operating conditions      Normal conditions   
  Power control step size   1                   dB
  ------------------------- ------------------- ------

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.8.3.1.

#### 5.13.2.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE peak code domain error does not exceed -15 dB for
the specified parameters in table 5.13.3.

An excess peak code domain error increases transmission errors in the up
link own channel.

#### 5.13.2.4 Method of test

##### 5.13.2.4.1 Initial conditions {#initial-conditions-16 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.1.

2\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure in
TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.2, and RF parameters are set up according
to table 5.13.4.

3\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

Table 5.13.4: Test parameters for Peak code domain error

  ------------------------- ------------------- ------
  Parameter                 Level / Status      Unit
  Operating conditions      Normal conditions   
  Uplink signal             multi-code          
  Information bit rate      2\*384              kbps
  Power control step size   1                   dB
  ------------------------- ------------------- ------

##### 5.13.2.4.2 Procedure {#procedure-16 .H6}

1\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE until
the UE output power shall be maximum level.

2\) Measure the Peak code Domain error using Global In-Channel Tx-Test
(annex B).

3\) Set the power level of UE to -18dBm or send Down power control
commands (1dB step size should be used.) to the UE until UE output power
shall be-18dBm with ±2dB tolerance.

4\) Repeat step 2).

#### 5.13.2.5 Test requirements

The measured Peak code domain error, derived in step 2) and 4), shall
not exceed -14 dB.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4

### 5.13.2A Relative Code Domain Error with HS-DPCCH

#### 5.13.2A.1 Definition and applicability

The Relative Code Domain Error is computed by projecting the error
vector (as defined in TS 25.101 \[1\] 6.8.2) onto the code domain. Only
the code channels with non-zero betas in the composite reference
waveform are considered for this requirement. The Relative Code Domain
Error for every non-zero beta code in the domain is defined as the ratio
of the mean power of the projection onto that non-zero beta code, to the
mean power of the non-zero beta code in the composite reference
waveform. This ratio is expressed in dB. The measurement interval is one
timeslot except when the mean power between slots is expected to change
whereupon the measurement interval is reduced by 25 μs at each end of
the slot.

The Relative Code Domain Error is affected by both the spreading factor
and beta value of the various code channels in the domain. The Effective
Code Domain Power (ECDP) is defined to capture both considerations into
one parameter. It uses the Nominal CDP ratio (as defined in TS25101
\[1\] 6.2.3), and is defined as follows for each used code, k, in the
domain:

ECDP~k~ = (Nominal CDP ratio)~k~ + 10\*log10(SF~k~/256)

The requirements for Relative Code Domain Error are not applicable when
either or both the following channel combinations occur:

\- when the ECDP of any code channel is \< -30dB.

\- when the nominal code domain power of any code channel is \< -20 dB

The requirement for Relative Code Domain Error also does not apply for
the PRACH preamble and message parts.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 6 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA but not E-DCH.

#### 5.13.2A.2 Minimum Requirements

The Relative Code Domain Error shall meet the requirements in Table
5.13.2A.1 for the parameters specified in table 5.13.2A.2.

Table 5.13.2A.1: Relative Code Domain Error minimum requirement

  ------------------ -------------------------------
  ECDP dB            Relative Code Domain Error dB
  -21 \< ECDP        ≤ -16
  -30 ≤ ECDP ≤ -21   ≤ -37 - ECDP
  ECDP \< -30        No requirement
  ------------------ -------------------------------

Table 5.13.2A.2: Parameters for Error Vector Magnitude/Peak Code Domain
Error

+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Parameter        | Unit     | Level            |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| UE Output Power  | dBm      | ≥ -20            |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Operating        |          | Normal           |                  |
| conditions       |          | conditions       |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Power control    | dB       | 1                |                  |
| step size        |          |                  |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Measurement      | PRACH    | Chips            | 3904             |
| period\          |          |                  |                  |
| (Note 1)         |          |                  |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
|                  | Any DPCH |                  | From 1280 to     |
|                  |          |                  | 2560\            |
|                  |          |                  | (Note 2)         |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| NOTE 1: Less any |          |                  |                  |
| 25μs transient   |          |                  |                  |
| periods          |          |                  |                  |
|                  |          |                  |                  |
| NOTE 2: The      |          |                  |                  |
| longest period   |          |                  |                  |
| over which the   |          |                  |                  |
| nominal power    |          |                  |                  |
| remains constant |          |                  |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.8.3a.

#### 5.13.2A.3 Test purpose

To verify that the Relative Code Domain Error does not exceed the values
in table 5.13.2A.5 for the beta values defined in table 5.13.2A.4.

#### 5.13.2A.4 Method of test

##### 5.13.2A.4.1 Initial conditions {#a.4.1-initial-conditions-13 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.1.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK version) are specified in Annex C.10.1 and
C.8.1.1 with the beta values set according to table C.10.1.4.

3\) An HSDPA call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.6.
RF parameters are set up according to table E.5.1 and table E.5.10.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.13.2A.3.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode in the presence of HSDPA and
start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback
test mode for HSDPA.

Table 5.13.2A.3: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement\
of Relative Code Domain Error with HS-DPCCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.2A.4.1                 |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

##### 5.13.2A.4.2 Procedure {#a.4.2-procedure-13 .H6}

1\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE and
wait until the UE has reached maximum power.

2\) Send TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message to set the beta
values according to table C.10.1.4 sub test 1 and the DPCH frame offset
according the HS-DPCCH slot offset required for measurements.

3\) Start transmitting HSDPA Data.

4\) Measure the Relative Code Domain Error of the DPCCH, DPDCH and
HS-DPCCH.

5\) Repeat step 4 for the other combinations of beta values as given in
table 5.13.2A.4.

6\) Set the power level of UE to -18dBm or send Down power control
commands (1dB step size should be used.) to the UE until UE output power
shall be -18dBm with ±2dB tolerance.

7\) Repeat step 4 for all the combinations of beta values as given in
table 5.13.2A.4.

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9 of TS 34.108 \[3\], except the
TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message which is defined in Annex I.

##### 5.13.2A.5 Test requirements {#a.5-test-requirements-13 .H6}

For the ECDP of each code measured in step 4 the Relative Code Domain
Error shall not exceed the value given in table 5.13.2A.5.

Table 5.13.2A.4: Nominal ECDP ratios

  ---------------------------- ---------- --------------------------- ------------------ --------------
  Sub-test in table C.10.1.4   Code       Nominal Code Domain Power   Spreading factor   Nominal ECDP
  1                            DPCCH      -17.9                       256                -17.9
                               DPDCH      -0.4                        64                 -6.4
                               HS-DPCCH   -11.8                       256                -11.8
  3                            DPCCH      -7.2                        256                -7.2
                               DPDCH      -12.7                       64                 -18.7
                               HS-DPCCH   -1.2                        256                -1.2
  4                            DPCCH      -7.1                        256                -7.1
                               DPDCH      -18.5                       64                 -24.5
                               HS-DPCCH   -1                          256                -1
  ---------------------------- ---------- --------------------------- ------------------ --------------

NOTE: The nominal ECDP ratios given above are calculated from the
nominal beta factors and are for general information to indicate the
test coverage. The actual ECDP to use in the test for each code shall be
based on the measured code domain power. The accuracy of the code domain
powers is tested separately in 5.2C.

Table 5.13.2A.5: Relative Code Domain Error test requirement

  ------------------ -------------------------------
  ECDP dB            Relative Code Domain Error dB
  -21 \< ECDP        ≤ -15.5
  -30 ≤ ECDP ≤ -21   ≤ -36.5 - ECDP
  ECDP \< -30        No requirement
  ------------------ -------------------------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

### 5.13.2B Relative Code Domain Error with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH

#### 5.13.2B.1 Definition and applicability

The Relative Code Domain Error is computed by projecting the error
vector (as defined in TS 25.101 \[1\] 6.8.2) onto the code domain. Only
the code channels with non-zero betas in the composite reference
waveform are considered for this requirement. The Relative Code Domain
Error for every non-zero beta code in the domain is defined as the ratio
of the mean power of the projection onto that non-zero beta code, to the
mean power of the non-zero beta code in the composite reference
waveform. This ratio is expressed in dB. The measurement interval is one
timeslot except when the mean power between slots is expected to change
whereupon the measurement interval is reduced by 25 μs at each end of
the slot.

The Relative Code Domain Error is affected by both the spreading factor
and beta value of the various code channels in the domain. The Effective
Code Domain Power (ECDP) is defined to capture both considerations into
one parameter. It uses the Nominal CDP ratio (as defined in TS25101
\[1\] 6.2.3), and is defined as follows for each used code, k, in the
domain:

ECDP~k~ = (Nominal CDP ratio)~k~ + 10\*log10(SF~k~/256)

The requirements for Relative Code Domain Error are not applicable when
either or both of the following channel combinations occur:

\- when the ECDP of any code channel is \< -30dB.

\- when the nominal code domain power of any code channel is \< -20 dB

The requirement for Relative Code Domain Error also does not apply for
the PRACH preamble and message parts.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 6 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA and E-DCH.

#### 5.13.2B.2 Minimum Requirements

The Relative Code Domain Error shall meet the requirements in Table
5.13.2B.1 for the parameters specified in Table 5.13.2B.2.

Table 5.13.2B.1: Relative Code Domain Error minimum requirement

  ------------------ -------------------------------
  ECDP dB            Relative Code Domain Error dB
  -21 \< ECDP        ≤ -16
  -30 ≤ ECDP ≤ -21   ≤ -37 - ECDP
  ECDP \< -30        No requirement
  ------------------ -------------------------------

Table 5.13.2B.2: Parameters for Relative Code Domain Error with HS-DPCCH
and E-DCH

+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Parameter        | Unit     | Level            |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| UE Output Power  | dBm      | ≥ -20            |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Operating        |          | Normal           |                  |
| conditions       |          | conditions       |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Power control    | dB       | 1                |                  |
| step size        |          |                  |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Measurement      | PRACH    | Chips            | 3904             |
| period\          |          |                  |                  |
| (Note 1)         |          |                  |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
|                  | Any DPCH |                  | From 1280 to     |
|                  |          |                  | 2560\            |
|                  |          |                  | (Note 2)         |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| NOTE 1: Less any |          |                  |                  |
| 25 μs transient  |          |                  |                  |
| periods          |          |                  |                  |
|                  |          |                  |                  |
| NOTE 2: The      |          |                  |                  |
| longest period   |          |                  |                  |
| over which the   |          |                  |                  |
| nominal power    |          |                  |                  |
| remains constant |          |                  |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.8.3a.

#### 5.13.2B.3 Test purpose

To verify that the Relative Code Domain Error does not exceed the values
in table 5.13.2B.9 for the beta values defined in table 5.13.2B.8.

#### 5.13.2B.4 Method of test

##### 5.13.2B.4.1 Initial conditions {#b.4.1-initial-conditions-9 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.1.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1, QPSK) are specified in Annex C.11.1 and C.8.1.1.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.9, with the
following exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages. These
exceptions allow the beta values to be set according to table C.11.1.3
and each UL physical channel to be at constant power at the start of the
measurement. RF parameters are set up according to table E.5A.1.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.13.2B.7.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping back both the
12.2kbps RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.13.2B.3: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test
Loop Mode1)

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------
  Information Element                                                                      Value/Remark
  UL Transport channel information for all transport channels                              
  \- 2bit CTFC                                                                             3
  \- Power offset Information                                                              
  \- CHOICE Gain Factors                                                                   Signalled Gain Factors
  \- CHOICE mode                                                                           FDD
  \- Gain factor ßc                                                                        Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.3
  \- Gain factor ßd                                                                        Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.3
  NOTE: All other 2 bit CTFC values use computed gain factors as in the default message.   
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------

Table 5.13.2B.4: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA) for Sub-tests 1,2,4

  ------------------------ ------------------
  Information Element      Value/Remark
  E-DCH info               Uplink DPCH info
  \- E-DPDCH info          
  \- Reference E-TFCIs     5 E-TFCIs
  \- Reference E-TFCI      11
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   4
  \- Reference E-TFCI      67
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   18
  \- Reference E-TFCI      71
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   23
  \- Reference E-TFCI      75
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   26
  \- Reference E-TFCI      81
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   27
  ------------------------ ------------------

Table 5.13.2B.5: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA) for Sub-test 3

  ------------------------ ------------------
  Information Element      Value/Remark
  E-DCH info               Uplink DPCH info
  \- E-DPDCH info          
  \- Reference E-TFCIs     2 E-TFCIs
  \- Reference E-TFCI      11
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   4
  \- Reference E-TFCI      92
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO   18
  ------------------------ ------------------

Table 5.13.2B.6: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (E-DCH
and HSDPA)

  --------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------
  Information Element               Value/Remark
  CHOICE channel requirement        Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm        Algorithm2
  \- ∆ACK                           Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.3
  \- ∆NACK                          Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.3
  \- Ack-Nack repetition factor     3 (required for continuous HS-DPCCH signal)
  E-DCH info                        
  \- E-DPCCH/DPCCH power offset     Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.3
  Downlink HS-PDSCH Information     
  **- Measurement Feedback Info**   
  \- CQI Feedback cycle, k          4 ms
  \- CQI repetition factor          2 (required for continuous HS-DPCCH signal)
  \- ∆CQI                           Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.3
  --------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------

Table 5.13.2B.7: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement\
of Relative Code Domain Error with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.13.2B.4.1              |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

##### 5.13.2B.4.2 Procedure {#b.4.2-procedure-9 .H6}

1\) Set the Absolute Grant according to Table C.11.1.3.

2\) The SS starts transmitting HSDPA and the UE loops the received data
back on E-DCH.

3\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS to set the output power
of the UE to be in the range 15dBm ± 2dB.

4\) Confirm that the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is equal to the target
E-TFCI in Table C.11.1.3. If the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is not
equal to the target E-TFCI, then fail the UE.5) Measure the Relative
Code Domain Error of the DPCCH, DPDCH, HS-DPCCH, E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH(s).

6\) Repeat steps 1 through 5 for the other combinations of beta values
as given in Table C.11.1.3.

7\) Set the power level of UE to -18 dBm or send down power control
commands (1 dB step size should be used) to the UE until UE output power
shall be -18 dBm with ± 2 dB tolerance.

8\) Measure the Relative Code Domain Error of the DPCCH, DPDCH,
HS-DPCCH, E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH(s).

9\) Repeat steps 7 and 8 for all the combinations of beta values for
sub-tests 1, 2, 3, and 4 as given in Table C.11.1.3.

#### 5.13.2B.5 Test requirements

For the ECDP of each code measured in steps 5 and 8 the Relative Code
Domain Error shall not exceed the value given in table 5.13.2B.9.

Table 5.13.2B.8: Nominal ECDP ratios

  ---------------------------- ---------- --------------------------- ------------------ --------------
  Sub-Test in Table C.11.1.3   Code       Nominal Code Domain Power   Spreading Factor   Nominal ECDP
  1                            DPCCH      -18.5                       256                -18.5
                               DPDCH      -15.8                       64                 -21.8
                               HS-DPCCH   -12.5                       256                -12.5
                               E-DPCCH    -16.5                       256                -16.5
                               E-DPDCH    -0.5                        4                  -18.6
  2                            DPCCH      -14.0                       256                -14.0
                               DPDCH      -6.0                        64                 -12.0
                               HS-DPCCH   -8.0                        256                -8.0
                               E-DPCCH    -8.0                        256                -8.0
                               E-DPDCH    -4.1                        4                  -22.2
  3                            DPCCH      -14.6                       256                -14.6
                               DPDCH      -19.1                       64                 -25.1
                               HS-DPCCH   -8.6                        256                -8.6
                               E-DPCCH    -8.6                        256                -8.6
                               E-DPDCH1   -4.7                        4                  -22.8
                               E-DPDCH2   -4.7                        4                  -22.8
  4                            DPCCH      -19.7                       256                -19.7
                               DPDCH      -2.2                        64                 -8.2
                               HS-DPCCH   -13.7                       256                -13.7
                               E-DPCCH    -19.7                       256                -19.7
                               E-DPDCH    -4.7                        4                  -22.8
  ---------------------------- ---------- --------------------------- ------------------ --------------

NOTE: The nominal ECDP ratios given above are calculated from the
nominal beta factors and are for general information to indicate the
test coverage. The actual ECDP to use in the test for each code shall be
based on the measured code domain power. The accuracy of the code domain
powers is tested separately in 5.2D.

Table 5.13.2B.9: Relative Code Domain Error test requirement

  ------------------ -------------------------------
  ECDP dB            Relative Code Domain Error dB
  -21 \< ECDP        ≤ -15.5
  -30 ≤ ECDP ≤ -21   ≤ -36.5 - ECDP
  ECDP \< -30        No requirement
  ------------------ -------------------------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

### 5.13.2BA Relative Code Domain Error with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH for DC-HSUPA

#### 5.13.2BA.1 Definition and applicability

The Relative Code Domain Error is computed by projecting the error
vector (as defined in TS 25.101 \[1\] 6.8.2) onto the code domain for
each of the two assigned channel frequencies. Only the code channels
with non-zero betas in the composite reference waveform are considered
for this requirement. The Relative Code Domain Error for every non-zero
beta code in the domain is defined as the ratio of the mean power of the
projection onto that non-zero beta code, to the mean power of the
non-zero beta code in the composite reference waveform. This ratio is
expressed in dB. The measurement interval is one timeslot except when
the mean power between slots is expected to change whereupon the
measurement interval is reduced by 25 μs at each end of the slot.

In the mode of DC-HSUPA, the requirement and corresponding measurements
apply to each individual carrier when the total power in each of the
assigned carriers is equal to each other. Furthermore, it is necessary
to verify the requirements when each carrier is configured according to
either of the UL E-DCH reference measurement channel for DC-HSUPA using
BPSK or 16QAM modulation, specified in subclause C.2.6, C.2.7 and C.11A.

The Relative Code Domain Error is affected by both the spreading factor
and beta value of the various code channels in the domain. The Effective
Code Domain Power (ECDP) is defined to capture both considerations into
one parameter. It uses the Nominal CDP ratio (as defined in TS25101
\[1\] 6.2.3), and is defined as follows for each used code, k, in the
domain:

ECDP~k~ = (Nominal CDP ratio)~k~ + 10\*log10(SF~k~/256)

The requirements for Relative Code Domain Error are not applicable when
either or both of the following channel combinations occur:

\- when the ECDP of any code channel is \< -30dB.

\- when the nominal code domain power of any code channel is \< -20 dB

The requirement for Relative Code Domain Error also does not apply for
the PRACH preamble and message parts.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 9 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA and Dual Cell E-DCH.

#### 5.13.2BA.2 Minimum Requirements

The Relative Code Domain Error shall meet the requirements in Table
5.13.2BA.1 for the parameters specified in Table 5.13.2BA.2.

Table 5.13.2BA.1: Relative Code Domain Error minimum requirement

  ------------------ -------------------------------
  ECDP dB            Relative Code Domain Error dB
  -21 \< ECDP        ≤ -16
  -30 ≤ ECDP ≤ -21   ≤ -37 - ECDP
  ECDP \< -30        No requirement
  ------------------ -------------------------------

Table 5.13.2BA.2: Parameters for Relative Code Domain Error with
HS-DPCCH and E-DCH for DC-HSUPA

  --------------------------- ------ -------------------
  Parameter                   Unit   Level
  UE Output Power, no 16QAM   dBm    ≥ -20
  Operating conditions               Normal conditions
  Power control step size     dB     1
  --------------------------- ------ -------------------

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.8.3a.

#### 5.13.2BA.3 Test purpose

To verify that the Relative Code Domain Error does not exceed the values
in table 5.13.2BA.9 for the beta values defined in table 5.13.2BA.8.

#### 5.13.2BA.4 Method of test

##### 5.13.2BA.4.1 Initial conditions {#ba.4.1-initial-conditions-4 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.41.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 3A, QPSK) and parameters are specified in Annex
C.2.6 and C.8.1.1.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.14, with
the following exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages. These
exceptions allow the beta values to be set according to table C.11A.1
and each UL physical channel to be at constant power at the start of the
measurement. RF parameters are set up according to table E.5A.1A.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.13.2BA.7.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping back HSDPA to E-DCH
according to procedure 7.3.14.3 in TS 34.108 \[3\] and start the
loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.13.2BA.3: Void

Table 5.13.2BA.4: Void

Table 5.13.2BA.5: Void

Table 5.13.2BA.6: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM
(E-DCH and HSDPA)

  ---------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element          Value/Remark
  CHOICE channel requirement   Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm   Algorithm2
  ---------------------------- ------------------

Table 5.13.2BA.7: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement\
of Relative Code Domain Error with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.13.2BA.4.1             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

##### 5.13.2BA.4.2 Procedure {#ba.4.2-procedure-4 .H6}

1\) Set the Absolute Grant according to Table C.11.1.3.

2\) The SS starts transmitting HSDPA and the UE loops the received data
back on E-DCH.

3\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS to set the output power
of each of the two carriers to be in the range 15dBm ± 2dB.

4\) Confirm that the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is equal to the target
E-TFCI in Table C.11A.1.1. If the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is not
equal to the target E-TFCI, then fail the UE.

5\) Measure the Relative Code Domain Error of the DPCCH, HS-DPCCH,
E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH(s) on each of the two assigned channel frequencies.

6\) Set the power level of each of the two carriers to -18 dBm or send
down power control commands (1 dB step size should be used) to the UE
until the power level of each of the two carriers is -18 dBm with ± 2 dB
tolerance.

7\) Measure the Relative Code Domain Error of the DPCCH, HS-DPCCH,
E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH(s) on each of the two assigned channel frequencies.

#### 5.13.2BA.5 Test requirements

For the ECDP of each code measured in steps 5 and 8 the Relative Code
Domain Error shall not exceed the value given in table 5.13.2BA.9.

Table 5.13.2BA.8: Nominal ECDP ratios

  ----------------------------- -------------- ---------- --------------------------- ------------------ --------------
  Sub-Test in Table C.11A.1.1   UL frequency   Code       Nominal Code Domain Power   Spreading Factor   Nominal ECDP
  1                             Primary        DPCCH      -5.8                        256                -5.8
                                               DPDCH      \-                          \-                 \-
                                               HS-DPCCH   -15.3                       256                -15.3
                                               E-DPCCH    -15.3                       256                -15.3
                                               E-DPDCH    -1.7                        16                 -13.7
                                Secondary      DPCCH      -5.6                        256                -5.6
                                               DPDCH      \-                          \-                 \-
                                               HS-DPCCH   \-                          \-                 \-
                                               E-DPCCH    -15.2                       256                -15.2
                                               E-DPDCH    -1.6                        16                 -13.6
  ----------------------------- -------------- ---------- --------------------------- ------------------ --------------

NOTE: The nominal ECDP ratios given above are calculated from the
nominal beta factors and are for general information to indicate the
test coverage. The actual ECDP to use in the test for each code shall be
based on the measured code domain power. The accuracy of the code domain
powers is tested separately in 5.2DA.

Table 5.13.2BA.9: Relative Code Domain Error test requirement

  ------------------ -------------------------------
  ECDP dB            Relative Code Domain Error dB
  -21 \< ECDP        ≤ -15.5
  -30 ≤ ECDP ≤ -21   ≤ -36.5 - ECDP
  ECDP \< -30        No requirement
  ------------------ -------------------------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

### 5.13.2C Relative Code Domain Error for HS-DPCCH and E-DCH with 16QAM

#### 5.13.2C.1 Definition and applicability

The Relative Code Domain Error is computed by projecting the error
vector (as defined in TS 25.101 \[1\] 6.8.2) onto the code domain. Only
the code channels with non-zero betas in the composite reference
waveform are considered for this requirement. The Relative Code Domain
Error for every non-zero beta code in the domain is defined as the ratio
of the mean power of the projection onto that non-zero beta code, to the
mean power of the non-zero beta code in the composite reference
waveform. This ratio is expressed in dB. The measurement interval is one
timeslot except when the mean power between slots is expected to change
whereupon the measurement interval is reduced by 25 μs at each end of
the slot.

The Relative Code Domain Error is affected by both the spreading factor
and beta value of the various code channels in the domain. The Effective
Code Domain Power (ECDP) is defined to capture both considerations into
one parameter. It uses the Nominal CDP ratio (as defined in TS25101
\[1\] 6.2.3), and is defined as follows for each used code, k, in the
domain:

ECDP~k~ = (Nominal CDP ratio)~k~ + 10\*log10(SF~k~/256)

When 16QAM is used on any of the UL code channels, the requirements for
Relative Code Domain Error are not applicable when either or both of the
following channel combinations occur:

\- when the ECDP of any code channel is \< -30dB.

\- when the nominal code domain power of any code channel is \< -30 dB

The requirement for Relative Code Domain Error also does not apply for
the PRACH preamble and message parts.

The requirements apply for Release 7 and later releases for all types of
UTRA for the FDD UE that support E-DCH 16QAM UE capability category 7.
This test applies only to UE that support HSDPA and E-DCH.

#### 5.13.2C.2 Minimum Requirements

When 16QAM is used on any of the UL code channels, the Relative Code
Domain Error of the codes not using 16QAM shall meet the requirements in
Table 5.13.2C.1 for the parameters specified in Table 5.13.2C.3.

Table 5.13.2C.1: Relative Code Domain Error minimum requirement, codes
not using 16QAM

  ------------------ -------------------------------
  ECDP dB            Relative Code Domain Error dB
  -22 \< ECDP        ≤ -18
  -30 ≤ ECDP ≤ -22   ≤ -40 - ECDP
  ECDP \< -30        No requirement
  ------------------ -------------------------------

When 16QAM is used on any of the UL code channels; the Nominal
CDP-Ratio-weighted average of the Relative Code Domain Errors measured
individually on each of the codes using 16QAM shall meet the
requirements in Table 5.13.2C.2 for the parameters specified in Table
5.13.2C.3. The Nominal CDP Ratio-weighted average of the Relative Code
Domain Errors means the sum
$\sum_{k}^{}{\text{10}^{(\text{Nominal\ CDP\ ratio}\frac{)_{k}}{\text{10}}} \cdot \text{10}^{(\text{Relative\ Code\ Domain\ Error}\frac{)_{k}}{\text{10}}}}$
over all code k that uses 16QAM.

For the purposes of evaluating the requirements specified in Table
5.13.2C.2, the ECDP value is determined as the minimum of the individual
ECDP values corresponding to the codes using 16QAM.

Table 5.13.2C.2: Relative Code Domain Error minimum requirement, with
16QAM used

  -------------------- ---------------------------------------
  ECDP dB              Average Relative Code Domain Error dB
  -25.5 \< ECDP        ≤ -18
  -30 ≤ ECDP ≤ -25.5   ≤ -43.5 - ECDP
  ECDP \< -30          No requirement
  -------------------- ---------------------------------------

Table 5.13.2C.3: Parameters for Relative Code Domain Error, with 16QAM
used

+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Parameter        | Unit     | Level            |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| UE Output Power, | dBm      | ≥ -30            |                  |
| 16QAM            |          |                  |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Operating        |          | Normal           |                  |
| conditions       |          | conditions       |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Power control    | dB       | 1                |                  |
| step size        |          |                  |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Measurement      | PRACH    | Chips            | 3904             |
| period\          |          |                  |                  |
| (Note 1)         |          |                  |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
|                  | Any DPCH |                  | From 1280 to     |
|                  |          |                  | 2560\            |
|                  |          |                  | (Note 2)         |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| NOTE 1: Less any |          |                  |                  |
| 25 μs transient  |          |                  |                  |
| periods          |          |                  |                  |
|                  |          |                  |                  |
| NOTE 2: The      |          |                  |                  |
| longest period   |          |                  |                  |
| over which the   |          |                  |                  |
| nominal power    |          |                  |                  |
| remains constant |          |                  |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.8.3a.

#### 5.13.2C.3 Test purpose

To verify that the Relative Code Domain Error does not exceed the values
in table 5.13.2C.7for the beta values defined in table 5.13.2C.6.

#### 5.13.2C.4 Method of test

##### 5.13.2C.4.1 Initial conditions {#c.4.1-initial-conditions-9 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.1.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the DL Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 1,16QAM) are specified in Annex C.11.1 and C.8.1.1.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.9, with the
following exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages. These
exceptions allow the beta values to be set according to table C.11.1.4
and each UL physical channel to be at constant power at the start of the
measurement. RF parameters are set up according to table E.5A.1.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.13.2C.5. Uplink SRB
for DCCH mapped on E-DCH and downlink SRB for DCCH on DCH. E-DCH is
configured with 2ms TTI.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping back HSDPA to E-DCH
and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.13.2C.4: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message:\
AM or UM (E-DCH and HSDPA) for Sub-test 1

  -------------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element              Value/Remark
  E-DCH info                       Uplink DPCH info
  \- E-DPCCH info                  
  \- E-TFCI Table Index            2
  \- E-DPDCH power interpolation   FALSE
  \- E-DPDCH info                  
  \- Reference E-TFCIs             3 E-TFCIs
  \- Reference E-TFCI              105
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO           12
  \- Reference E-TFCI              116
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO           14
  \- Reference E-TFCI              127
  \- Reference E-TFCI PO           16
  \- Max Channelisation Codes      SF4x2 and SF2x2
  -------------------------------- ------------------

Table 5.13.2C.5: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (E-DCH
and HSDPA)

  --------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------
  Information Element                     Value/Remark
  CHOICE channel requirement              Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm              Algorithm2
  \- ∆ACK                                 Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.4
  \- ∆NACK                                Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.4
  \- Ack-Nack repetition factor           3 (required for continuous HS-DPCCH signal)
  E-DCH info                              
  \- E-DPCCH info                         
  \- E-DPCCH/DPCCH power offset           Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.4
  \- E-TFC Boost Info                     
  \- E-TFCI boost                         Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.4
  \- Delta T2TP                           12 dB
  \- UL 16QAM settings                    
  \- BetaEd gain E-AGCH table selection   0
  Downlink HS-PDSCH Information           
  **- Measurement Feedback Info**         
  \- CQI Feedback cycle, k                4 ms
  \- CQI repetition factor                2 (required for continuous HS-DPCCH signal)
  \- ∆CQI                                 Value used in test: see Table C.11.1.4
  --------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------

Table 5.13.2C.6: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement\
of Relative Code Domain Error with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.13.2C.4.1              |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

##### 5.13.2C.4.2 Procedure {#c.4.2-procedure-9 .H6}

1\) Set the Absolute Grant according to Table C.11.1.4.

2\) The SS starts transmitting HSDPA and the UE loops the received data
back on E-DCH.

3\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS to set the output power
of the UE to be in the range 15 dBm ± 2 dB.

4\) Confirm that the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is equal to the target
E-TFCI in Table C.11.1.4. If the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is not
equal to the target E-TFCI, then fail the UE.

5\) Send alternating \"0\" and \"1\" TPC commands in the downlink so as
to satisfy the condition of obtaining TPC\_cmd = 0.

6\) Measure the Relative Code Domain Error of the DPCCH, HS-DPCCH,
E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH(s).

7\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS to set the output power
of the UE to be in the range -18 dBm ± 2 dB and repeat steps 4 to
6.5.13.2C.5 Test requirements

For the ECDP of each code measured in step 6) the Relative Code Domain
Error shall not exceed the value given in table 5.13.2C.8 and table
5.13.2C.9.

Table 5.13.2C.7: Nominal ECDP ratios

  ---------------------------- ---------- --------------------------- ------------------ --------------
  Sub-Test in Table C.11.1.4   Code       Nominal Code Domain Power   Spreading Factor   Nominal ECDP
  1                            DPCCH      -13.4                       256                -13.4
                               HS-DPCCH   -7.4                        256                -7.4
                               E-DPCCH    -7.4                        256                -7.4
                               E-DPDCH1   -7.4                        2                  -28.5
                               E-DPDCH2   -7.4                        2                  -28.5
                               E-DPDCH3   -9.4                        4                  -27.5
                               E-DPDCH4   -9.4                        4                  -27.5
  ---------------------------- ---------- --------------------------- ------------------ --------------

NOTE: The nominal ECDP ratios given above are calculated from the
nominal beta factors and are for general information to indicate the
test coverage. The actual ECDP to use in the test for each code shall be
based on the measured code domain power. The accuracy of the code domain
powers is tested separately in 5.2E.

Table 5.13.2C.8: Relative Code Domain Error test requirement, codes not
using 16QAM

  ------------------ ---------------------------------------
  ECDP dB            Average Relative Code Domain Error dB
  -22 \< ECDP        ≤ -17.5
  -30 ≤ ECDP ≤ -22   ≤ -39.5 - ECDP
  ECDP \< -30        No requirement
  ------------------ ---------------------------------------

Table 5.13.2C.9: Relative Code Domain Error test requirement, with 16QAM
used

  -------------------- ---------------------------------------
  ECDP dB              Average Relative Code Domain Error dB
  -25.5 \< ECDP        ≤ -17.5
  -30 ≤ ECDP ≤ -25.5   ≤ -43.0 - ECDP
  ECDP \< -30          No requirement
  -------------------- ---------------------------------------

NOTE 1: For the measurement points in which UE uses 16QAM modulation the
correction factor in the measurements shall be applied to the β~ed~
value used to compute the Nominal CDP equal to {A~1~\*(0.4472)\^2 +
A~2~\*(1.3416)\^2+ A~3~\*(-0.4472)\^2 + A~4~\*(-1.3416)\^2}^1/2^ where
A~1~, A~2~, A~3~ and A~4~ are the fractions of symbols (00, 01, 10, 11
respectively) transmitted during the test.

NOTE 2: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

### 5.13.2CA Relative Code Domain Error for HS-DPCCH and E-DCH with 16QAM for DC-HSUPA

#### 5.13.2CA.1 Definition and applicability

The Relative Code Domain Error is computed by projecting the error
vector (as defined in TS 25.101 \[1\] 6.8.2) onto the code domain for
each of the two assigned channel frequences. Only the code channels with
non-zero betas in the composite reference waveform are considered for
this requirement. The Relative Code Domain Error for every non-zero beta
code in the domain is defined as the ratio of the mean power of the
projection onto that non-zero beta code, to the mean power of the
non-zero beta code in the composite reference waveform. This ratio is
expressed in dB. The measurement interval is one timeslot except when
the mean power between slots is expected to change whereupon the
measurement interval is reduced by 25 μs at each end of the slot.

The Relative Code Domain Error is affected by both the spreading factor
and beta value of the various code channels in the domain. The Effective
Code Domain Power (ECDP) is defined to capture both considerations into
one parameter. It uses the Nominal CDP ratio (as defined in TS25101
\[1\] 6.2.3), and is defined as follows for each used code, k, in the
domain:

ECDP~k~ = (Nominal CDP ratio)~k~ + 10\*log10(SF~k~/256)

The requirements for Relative Code Domain Error are not applicable when
either or both of the following channel combinations occur:

\- when the ECDP of any code channel is \< -30dB.

\- when the nominal code domain power of any code channel is \< -30 dB

The requirement for Relative Code Domain Error also does not apply for
the PRACH preamble and message parts.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 9 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA and Dual Cell E-DCH.

#### 5.13.2CA.2 Minimum Requirements

When 16QAM is used on any of the UL code channels, the Relative Code
Domain Error of the codes not using 16QAM shall meet the requirements in
Table 5.13.2CA.1 for the parameters specified in Table 5.13.2CA.3.

Table 5.13.2CA.1: Relative Code Domain Error minimum requirement, codes
not using 16QAM

  ------------------ -------------------------------
  ECDP dB            Relative Code Domain Error dB
  -22 \< ECDP        ≤ -18
  -30 ≤ ECDP ≤ -22   ≤ -40 - ECDP
  ECDP \< -30        No requirement
  ------------------ -------------------------------

When 16QAM is used on any of the UL code channels; the Nominal
CDP-Ratio-weighted average of the Relative Code Domain Errors measured
individually on each of the codes using 16QAM in that carrier shall meet
the requirements in Table 5.13.2CA.2 for the parameters specified in
Table 5.13.2CA.3. The Nominal CDP Ratio-weighted average of the Relative
Code Domain Errors means the sum
$\sum_{k}^{}{\text{10}^{(\text{Nominal\ CDP\ ratio}\frac{)_{k}}{\text{10}}} \cdot \text{10}^{(\text{Relative\ Code\ Domain\ Error}\frac{)_{k}}{\text{10}}}}$
over all code k that uses 16QAM.

For the purposes of evaluating the requirements specified in Table
5.13.2CA.2, the ECDP value is determined as the minimum of the
individual ECDP values corresponding to the codes using 16QAM.

Table 5.13.2CA.2: Relative Code Domain Error minimum requirement, with
16QAM used

  -------------------- ---------------------------------------
  ECDP dB              Average Relative Code Domain Error dB
  -25.5 \< ECDP        ≤ -18
  -30 ≤ ECDP ≤ -25.5   ≤ -43.5 - ECDP
  ECDP \< -30          No requirement
  -------------------- ---------------------------------------

Table 5.13.2CA.3: Parameters for Relative Code Domain Error, with 16QAM
used

+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Parameter        | Unit     | Level            |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| UE Output Power, | dBm      | ≥ -30            |                  |
| 16QAM            |          |                  |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Operating        |          | Normal           |                  |
| conditions       |          | conditions       |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Power control    | dB       | 1                |                  |
| step size        |          |                  |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| Measurement      | PRACH    | Chips            | 3904             |
| period\          |          |                  |                  |
| (Note 1)         |          |                  |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
|                  | Any DPCH |                  | From 1280 to     |
|                  |          |                  | 2560\            |
|                  |          |                  | (Note 2)         |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
| NOTE 1: Less any |          |                  |                  |
| 25 μs transient  |          |                  |                  |
| periods          |          |                  |                  |
|                  |          |                  |                  |
| NOTE 2: The      |          |                  |                  |
| longest period   |          |                  |                  |
| over which the   |          |                  |                  |
| nominal power    |          |                  |                  |
| remains constant |          |                  |                  |
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.8.3a.

#### 5.13.2CA.3 Test purpose

To verify that the Relative Code Domain Error does not exceed the values
in table 5.13.2CA.6 for the beta values defined in table 5.13.2CA.5.

#### 5.13.2CA.4 Method of test

##### 5.13.2CA.4.1 Initial conditions {#ca.4.1-initial-conditions-1 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.41.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and the DL Fixed Reference
Channels (FRC H-Set 3A,16QAM) are specified in Annex C.2.6 and C.8.1.1.

3\) An E-DCH call is set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\] 7.3.14, with
the following exceptions in the RADIO BEARER SETUP messages. These
exceptions allow the beta values to be set according to table C.11.A.1
and each UL physical channel to be at constant power at the start of the
measurement. RF parameters are set up according to table E.5A.1A.
Settings for the serving cell are defined in table 5.13.2CA.5. Uplink
SRB for DCCH mapped on E-DCH and downlink SRB for DCCH on DCH. E-DCH is
configured with 2ms TTI.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping back HSDPA to E-DCH
and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.13.2CA.4: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM
(E-DCH and HSDPA)

  ---------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element          Value/Remark
  CHOICE channel requirement   Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm   Algorithm2
  ---------------------------- ------------------

Table 5.13.2CA.5: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement\
of Relative Code Domain Error with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.13.2CA.4.1             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

##### 5.13.2CA.4.2 Procedure {#ca.4.2-procedure-1 .H6}

1\) Set the Absolute Grant according to Table C.11A.1.2.

2\) The SS starts transmitting HSDPA and the UE loops the received data
back on E-DCH.

3\) Generate suitable TPC commands from the SS to set the output power
of each of the two carriers to be in the range 15dBm ± 2dB.

4\) Confirm that the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is equal to the target
E-TFCI in Table C.11A.1.2. If the E-TFCI transmitted by the UE is not
equal to the target E-TFCI, then fail the UE.

5\) Measure the Relative Code Domain Error of the DPCCH, HS-DPCCH,
E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH(s) on each of the two assigned channel frequencies.

6\) Set the power level of each of the two carriers to -18 dBm or send
down power control commands (1 dB step size should be used) to the UE
until the power level of each of the two carriers is -18 dBm with ± 2 dB
tolerance.

7\) Measure the Relative Code Domain Error of the DPCCH, HS-DPCCH,
E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH(s) on each of the two assigned channel frequencies.

#### 5.13.2CA.5 Test requirements

For the ECDP of each code measured in steps 5) and 7) the Relative Code
Domain Error shall not exceed the value given in table 5.13.2CA.7 and
table 5.13.2CA.8.

Table 5.13.2CA.6: Nominal ECDP ratios

  ----------------------------- -------------- ---------------- --------------------------- ------------------ --------------
  Sub-Test in Table C.11A.1.2   UL frequency   Code             Nominal Code Domain Power   Spreading Factor   Nominal ECDP
  1                             Primary        DPCCH            -24,0                       256                -24,0
                                               DPDCH            \-                          \-                 \-
                                               HS-DPCCH         -21,9                       256                -21,9
                                               E-DPCCH          -15,9                       256                -15,9
                                               E-DPDCH (SF/2)   -4,9                        2                  -26,0
                                               E-DPDCH (SF/4)   -7,9                        4                  -26,0
                                Secondary      DPCCH            -23,9                       256                -23,9
                                               DPDCH            \-                          \-                 \-
                                               HS-DPCCH         \-                          \-                 \-
                                               E-DPCCH          -15,9                       256                -15,9
                                               E-DPDCH (SF/2)   -4,9                        2                  -26,0
                                               E-DPDCH (SF/4)   -7,9                        4                  -26,0
  ----------------------------- -------------- ---------------- --------------------------- ------------------ --------------

NOTE: The nominal ECDP ratios given above are calculated from the
nominal beta factors and are for general information to indicate the
test coverage. The actual ECDP to use in the test for each code shall be
based on the measured code domain power. The accuracy of the code domain
powers is tested separately in 5.2E.

Table 5.13.2CA.7: Relative Code Domain Error test requirement, codes not
using 16QAM

  ------------------ ---------------------------------------
  ECDP dB            Average Relative Code Domain Error dB
  -22 \< ECDP        ≤ -17.5
  -30 ≤ ECDP ≤ -22   ≤ -39.5 - ECDP
  ECDP \< -30        No requirement
  ------------------ ---------------------------------------

Table 5.13.2CA.8: Relative Code Domain Error test requirement, with
16QAM used

  -------------------- ---------------------------------------
  ECDP dB              Average Relative Code Domain Error dB
  -25.5 \< ECDP        ≤ -17.5
  -30 ≤ ECDP ≤ -25.5   ≤ -43.0 - ECDP
  ECDP \< -30          No requirement
  -------------------- ---------------------------------------

NOTE 1: For the measurement points in which UE uses 16QAM modulation the
correction factor in the measurements shall be applied to the β~ed~
value used to compute the Nominal CDP equal to {A~1~\*(0.4472)\^2 +
A~2~\*(1.3416)\^2+ A~3~\*(-0.4472)\^2 + A~4~\*(-1.3416)\^2}^1/2^ where
A~1~, A~2~, A~3~ and A~4~ are the fractions of symbols (00, 01, 10, 11
respectively) transmitted during the test.

NOTE 2: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

### 5.13.3 UE phase discontinuity

#### 5.13.3.1 Definition and applicability

Phase discontinuity is the change in phase between any two adjacent
timeslots. The EVM for each timeslot (excluding the transient periods of
25 μs on either side of the nominal timeslot boundaries) shall be
measured according to subclause 5.13.1. The frequency, absolute phase,
absolute amplitude and chip clock timing used to minimise the error
vector are chosen independently for each timeslot. The phase
discontinuity result is defined as the difference between the absolute
phase used to calculate EVM for the preceding timeslot, and the absolute
phase used to calculate EVM for the succeeding timeslot.

![](media/image39.wmf){width="6.002777777777778in"
height="3.0694444444444446in"}

Figure 5.13.3.1 Graphical description of phase discontinuity

The best-fit rate of change of phase for each timeslot is calculated
using the same process as used to minimize the EVM. This best-fit rate
of change of phase is by definition the frequency error result for the
timeslot. Due to the presence of power steps in the test, the data used
for the best-fit calculation shall exclude the 25μs transition period at
the beginning and end of each timeslot. The best-fit rate of change of
phase for each timeslot is then extrapolated in both directions onto the
timeslot boundaries. The phase discontinuity result at any one slot
boundary is the difference between the extrapolated phase at the end of
the timeslot preceding the slot boundary and the extrapolated phase at
the start of the timeslot following the slot boundary.

The requirements and this test apply to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE
for Release 5 and later releases.

#### 5.13.3.2 Minimum requirements

The rate of occurrence of any phase discontinuity on an uplink DPCH for
the parameters specified in table 5.13.3.1 shall not exceed the values
specified in table 5.13.3.2. Phase shifts that are caused by changes of
the UL transport format combination (TFC) and compressed mode are not
included. When calculating the phase discontinuity, the requirements for
frequency error and EVM in subclauses TS 25.101 \[1\] 6.3 and TS 25.101
\[1\] 6.8.2 for each timeslot shall be met.

Table 5.13.3.1: Parameters for Phase discontinuity

  ------------------------- ------ -------
  Parameter                 Unit   Level
  Power control step size   dB     1
  ------------------------- ------ -------

Table 5.13.3.2: Phase discontinuity minimum requirement

  ----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------
  Phase discontinuity Δθ in degrees   Maximum allowed rate of occurrence in Hz
  Δθ ≤ 30                             1500
  30 \< Δθ ≤ 60                       300
  Δθ \> 60                            0
  ----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.8.4.

#### 5.13.3.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE phase discontinuity is within the limits shown in
clause 5.13.3.2.

To verify that any timeslot used in the calculation of a phase
discontinuity result also passes the frequency error and EVM
requirements referenced in clause 5.3 2 and 5.13.3.2.

#### 5.13.3.4 Method of test

##### 5.13.3.4.1 Initial conditions {#initial-conditions-17 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.1.

2\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure using
power control algorithm 1 as specified in TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause
7.3.2.

3\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### Procedure {#procedure-17 .H6}

![](media/image40.wmf){width="6.002777777777778in"
height="3.0430555555555556in"}

Figure 5.13.3.2: Five down four up hysteresis test pattern

![](media/image41.wmf){width="6.002777777777778in"
height="3.042361111111111in"}

Figure 5.13.3.3: Five up four down hysteresis test pattern

1\) Set the power of the UE to max power using continuous up TPC
commands.

2\) Transmit a sequence of five down four up TPC commands as shown in
figure 5.13.3.2 until the UE has reached the minimum power defined in
5.4.3 with ±2dB tolerance.

3\) During step 2 starting with the slot before the first down power
step, measure the EVM of each slot and the phase discontinuity to the
next slot.

4\) Transmit a sequence of five up four down TPC commands as shown in
figure 5.13.3.3 until the UE has reached its maximum power defined in
5.2 with ±2dB tolerance.

5\) During step 4 starting with the slot before the first up power step,
measure the EVM of each slot and the phase discontinuity to the next
slot.

NOTE: In order to make it practical to measure the entire power control
dynamic range (between min power threshold and max power threshold with
suitable margins), it is permissible to segment the power control
sequences into smaller subsequences. Except when within 5 dB of the
upper or lower thresholds, segmentation will require sufficient overlap
such that every power step in one direction is followed by four steps in
the other direction.

#### 5.13.3.5 Test requirements

a\) During 5.13.3.4.2 step 3, and step 5, the EVM of every measured slot
which is greater than or equal to -20 dBm shall not exceed 17.5%

b\) During 5.13.3.4.2 step 3, and step 5, the Frequency error of every
measured slot shall not exceed ±(0,1 ppm + 10 Hz).

c\) During 5.13.3.4.2 step 3, and step 5; the phase discontinuity
measurements made between any two adjacent slots shall be less than or
equal to 36 degrees. If a phase discontinuity measurement is greater
than 36 degrees and less than or equal to 66 degrees then the next four
measurements shall be less than or equal to 36 degrees. No measurement
shall exceed 66 degrees.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

### 5.13.4 PRACH preamble quality

#### 5.13.4.1 Definition and applicability

PRACH preamble quality is a measure of the ability of the UE to transmit
the PRACH preamble in accordance with the core requirements so that the
Node B can reliably decode the PRACH.

This test applies to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE from Release 5
onwards.

#### 5.13.4.2 Minimum requirements

The EVM of the PRACH preamble observed over the interval of 3904 chips
(i.e. excluding the transient periods) shall not exceed 17.5%.

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 6.8.2.

The UE modulated carrier frequency used to transmit the PRACH preamble
observed over the interval of 3904 chips (i.e. excluding the transient
periods) shall be within ± 0.1 PPM compared to the carrier frequency
received from the Node B.

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 6.3.

The PRACH preamble shall be transmitted in the correct access slot using
the correct signature as defined by the parameters signalled to the UE.

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.214 \[5\] clause 6.1
physical random access procedure.

#### 5.13.4.3 Test purpose

The test purpose is to verify that the transmission quality of the first
PRACH preamble meets the minimum requirements for modulation quality,
carrier frequency, access slot and signature as defined in 5.13.4.2. The
UE is tested at nominal maximum output power and nominally 5.6 dB to 8.6
dB above reference sensitivity, which simulates operation towards the
cell boundary. The access slot and signature are chosen randomly from
the allowed possibilities for each execution of the RACH procedure.
There are 384 possible configurations that could be chosen, but only 10
of these are randomly selected for test in order to minimize the test
time.

#### 5.13.4.4 Method of test

##### 5.13.4.4.1 Initial conditions {#initial-conditions-18 .H6}

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.1.

2\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure,
using the modified parameters according to table 5.13.4.1 and table
5.13.4.2. The relative power levels of the downlink physical channels to
Ior are set up according to clause E.2.1. The physical random access
procedure within the call setup is used for the test.

See TS 34.108 \[3\] for details regarding generic call setup procedure
and 25.214 \[5\] for details of the physical random access procedure.

Table 5.13.4.1: Static test parameters for PRACH quality

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- ------------------- ------------------- ------------------- ----------------
  Static Parameters                                                                                                                              **Power Class 1**   **Power Class 2**   **Power Class 3**   **Power Class 4**   **Unit**
  Îor                                                                                                                                            −98.1               −98.1               −98.1               −98.1               dBm / 3,84 MHz
  Nominal CPICH\_RSCP                                                                                                                            −102                −102                −102                −102                dBm
  Primary CPICH TX power                                                                                                                         +24                 +24                 +24                 +24                 dBm
  Simulated path loss = Primary CPICH TX power - CPICH\_RSCP                                                                                     +126                +126                +126                +126                dB
  UL interference                                                                                                                                −83                 −89                 −92                 −95                 dBm
  Constant Value                                                                                                                                 −10                 −10                 −10                 −10                 dB
  Expected nominal UE TX power^1^                                                                                                                +33                 +27                 +24                 +21                 dBm
  Preamble Retrans Max                                                                                                                           1                                                                               
  NOTE 1: The Expected nominal UE TX power is calculated by using the equation in the clause 8.5.7 Open Loop Power Control of TS 25.331 \[8\].                                                                                   
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- ------------------- ------------------- ------------------- ----------------

Table 5.13.4.2: Random test parameters for PRACH quality

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Random Parameters^1^**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        **Value**
  Available RACH Sub Channels                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     One sub-channel chosen at random from the 12-bit Available sub channel number
  Available PRACH Signatures                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      One signature chosen at random from the 16-bit Available signature number
  ASC Setting                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Both Available signature Start Index and Available signature End Index are 0
  AICH transmission timing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Chosen at random from the range 0 to1
  NOTE 1: In order to avoid a static test configuration, each time the RACH procedure is executed, the parameters in this table are to be chosen at random from the defined range. The random function used shall be such that each of the allowed selections is chosen with equal probability.   
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Table 5.13.4.3: PAGING TYPE 1 Message content**

  ------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Information Element**   **Value/remark**
  BCCH modification info    
  MIB Value Tag             Set to the same value as the value tag of the MIB after the BCCH modification
  BCCH Modification time    Not present
  ------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### 5.13.4.4.2 Procedure {#procedure-18 .H6}

1\) Set the TX output level of the SS to obtain Îor at the UE antenna
connector. Îor shall be according to table 5.13.4.1 depending on the
power class of the UE.

2\) The SS shall initiate a call by sending PAGING TYPE 1 message and
measure the first RF transmission from the UE.

3\) The SS shall determine the access slot used, the received signature,
the EVM and the frequency error.

4\) Choose a new set of parameters from table 5.13.4.2

5\) Send PAGING TYPE 1 message with BCCH modification info as per table
5.13.4.3.

6\) Wait 5seconds to allow the UE to read the new SIB 5.

7\) Repeat from step number 2) ten times.

#### 5.13.4.5 Test requirements

For all the transmitted PRACH preambles measured in 5.13.4.4.2 step 3:

1)  The EVM shall not exceed 17,5 %.

2)  The frequency error shall not exceed ±(0,1 ppm + 10 Hz).

3)  The detected access slot and signature shall be correct according to
    the physical random access procedure defined in \[5\].

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

### 5.13.5 In-band emission for DC-HSUPA

#### 5.13.5.1 Definition and applicability

The in-band emission is measured as the ratio of the UE output power in
one carrier in dual cells to the UE output power in the other carrier,
where the power in the former carrier shall be set to the minimum output
power and the power in the latter carrier to the maximum output power.
It is necessary to verify the requirements when the both carriers are
configured according to the UL E-DCH reference measurement channel for
DC-HSUPA using BPSK modulation, specified in subclause C.11A. The basic
in-band emission measurement interval is defined over one slot in the
time domain.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 9 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA and Dual Cell E-DCH.

#### 5.13.5.2 Minimum Requirements

The in-band emission shall not exceed the value specified in Table
5.13.5.1.

Table 5.13.5.1: In-band emission minimum requirements for DC-HSUPA

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------ -------
  Parameter Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Unit   Limit
  In-band emission                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  dBc    -24
  NOTE: The measurement bandwidth is 3.84 MHz centred on each carrier frequency and the limit is expressed as a ratio of RRC filtered mean power in one carrier, transmitting at minimum output power, to the RRC filtered mean power in the other carrier, transmitting at maximum output power.          
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------ -------

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
6.8.3b.1.

#### 5.13.5.3 Test purpose

To verify that the in-band emission, during DC-HSUPA transmission, does
not exceed the prescribed limits shown in table 5.13.5.1. This is
applicable for all values of *β~c\ ~*, *β~d\ ~* ,* β~hs~*, *β~ec\ ~*and
*β~ed\ ~* as specified in \[5\]. The maximum output power with HS-DPCCH
and/or E-DCH is specified in table 5.2BA.1.

Excess in-band emission decreases the uplink stability and throughput in
DC-HSUPA operation.

NOTE: For a static signal, the measurement with a 3.84 MHz filter can be
replaced by a narrower filter and integration over the bandwidth. For a
non static signal the above described replacement gives different
results, depending on the type of dynamic in the signal and depending on
the bandwidth of the filter. Hence the signal is tested only when
static.

#### 5.13.5.4 Method of test

##### 5.13.5.4.1 Initial conditions {#initial-conditions-19 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS (node B emulator) to the UE antenna connector as
shown in figure A.41.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel and parameters are specified in
Annex C.2.6 and C.11A. The DL Reference Measurement Channel (FRC H-SET
3A, QPSK) is specified in C.8.1.1.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure
specified in TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.14, with exceptions for
information elements in RADIO BEARER SETUP message as given in Table
5.2BA.2, 5.2BA.3 and 5.2BA.4. These exceptions allow the beta values to
be set according to table C.11A.1.1 and each UL physical channel to be
at constant power during the measurement. RF parameters are set up
according to E.5 A.1A. Settings for the serving cell are defined in
table 5.13.5.2

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode 1 looping back HSDPA to E-DCH
according to procedure 7.3.14.3 in TS 34.108 \[3\] and start the
loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH.

Table 5.13.5.2: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement\
of in-band emission for DC-HSUPA

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 5.145.13.5.4.1           |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~ (see notes 1 and   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -86                      |
| 2)                       |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| Î~or~ instead of         |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP because RSCP |              |                          |
| is a receiver            |              |                          |
| measurement, whereas the |              |                          |
| SS can only set Î~or~.   |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

Table 5.13.5.3: Power Settings of Uplink Carriers for the measurement\
of in-band emission for DC-HSUPA

  ---------- ------------------------ -------------------------
  Sub-test   Power of First Carrier   Power of Second Carrier
  1          Maximum                  Minimum
  2          Minimum                  Maximum
  ---------- ------------------------ -------------------------

##### 5.13.5.4.2 Procedure {#procedure-19 .H6}

1\) Set the Absolute Grant according to Table C.11A.1.1.

2\) The SS starts transmitting HSDPA and the UE loops the received data
back on E-DCH.

3\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to one carrier
and Down power control commands to the other carrier to reach the power
levels as given in table 5.13.5.3. Wait for 150ms.

> 4\) Measure the power of each carrier with a measurement filter of
> bandwidths according to table 5.13.5.1 and record the power
> difference. The power may be calculated by integrating multiple
> narrower filter(≥3kHz) measurements. The characteristic of the filter
> shall be approximately Gaussian (typical spectrum analyzer filter).
> The measurement duration with the filter on one frequency shall last
> at least the filter settling time and the measurement period shall be
> inside the HS-DPCCH on-period.

5\) Repeat steps 1-4 for sub-tests as given in table 5.13.5.3.

#### 5.13.5.5 Test requirements

The result of clause 5.13.5.4.2 step 4) shall fulfil the requirements of
table 5.13.5.4.

Table 5.13.5.4: In-band Emission Requirement for DC-HSUPA

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------ -------
  Parameter Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Unit   Limit
  In-band emission                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  dBc    -23.2
  NOTE: The measurement bandwidth is 3.84 MHz centred on each carrier frequency and the limit is expressed as a ratio of RRC filtered mean power in one carrier, transmitting at minimum output power, to the RRC filtered mean power in the other carrier, transmitting at maximum output power.          
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------ -------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

6 Receiver Characteristics
==========================

6.1 General
-----------

Receiving performance test of the UE is implemented during communicating
with the SS via air interface. The procedure is using normal call
protocol until the UE is communicating on traffic channel basically. On
the traffic channel, the UE provides special function for testing that
is called Logical Test Interface and the UE is tested using this
function (Refer to TS 34.109 \[4\]).

Transmitting or receiving bit/symbol rate for test channel is shown in
table 6.1.

Table 6.1: Bit / Symbol rate for Test Channel

+-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+
| Type of     | User bit    | DL DPCH     | UL DPCH  | Remarks     |
| User        | rate        |             |          |             |
| Information |             | symbol rate | bit rate |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+
| 12,2 kbps   | 12,2 kbps   | 30 ksps     | 60 kbps  | Standard    |
| reference   |             |             |          | Test        |
| measurement |             |             |          |             |
| channel     |             |             |          |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+

Unless otherwise stated the receiver characteristics are specified at
the antenna connector of the UE. For UE(s) with an integral antenna
only, a reference antenna with a gain of 0 dBi is assumed. UE with an
integral antenna may be taken into account by converting these power
levels into field strength requirements, assuming a 0 dBi gain antenna.
For UEs with more than one receiver antenna connector the AWGN signals
applied to each receiver antenna connector shall be uncorrelated. The
levels of the test signals applied to each of the antenna connectors
shall be as defined in the respective sections below.

The UE antenna performance has a significant impact on system
performance, and minimum requirements on the antenna efficiency are
therefore intended to be included in future versions of the present
document. It is recognised that different requirements and test methods
are likely to be required for the different types of UE.

With the exception of clause 6.8, all the parameters in clause 6 are
defined using the DL reference measurement channel (12,2 kbps) specified
in clause C.3.1 and unless stated otherwise, with DL power control OFF.

The common RF test conditions of Rx Characteristics are defined in
clause E.3.2, and each test conditions in this clause (clause 6) should
refer clause E.3.2. Individual test conditions are defined in the
paragraph of each test.

When DCCH has been configured on downlink DCH then DCCH Data shall be
continuously transmitted on downlink DCH during the measurement period.
When there is no signalling to transmit on downlink DCCH then dummy DCCH
transmission as described in Annex C.9 shall be used.

For HSDPA test cases, when DTCH has been configured on downlink DCH then
DTCH Data shall be continuously transmitted on downlink DCH during the
measurement period.

All Bit Error ratio (BER) measurements in clause 6 shall be performed
according to the general rules for statistical testing in Annex F.6.

For HSDPA test cases without E-DCH, the MAC headers on HS-DSCH shall be
according to Annex C.9A.

UEs supporting DC-HSDPA, regardless of MIMO configuration, shall support
both minimum requirements, as well as additional requirements for
DC-HSDPA.

UEs supporting DB-DC-HSDPA shall support both minimum requirements as
well as additional requirements for DB-DC-HSDPA.

UEs supporting DC-HSUPA shall support both minimum requirements, as well
as additional requirements for DC-HSUPA.

UEs supporting single band 4C-HSDPA shall support minimum requirements,
additional requirements for DC-HSDPA as well as additional requirements
for single band 4C-HSDPA.

UEs supporting dual band 4C-HSDPA shall support minimum requirements,
additional requirements for DC-HSDPA, additional requirements for
DB-DC-HSDPA as well as additional requirements for dual band 4C-HSDPA.

For the additional requirements for DC-HSDPA, DB-DC-HSDPA, DC-HSUPA or
single band/dual band 4C-HSDPA, all the parameters in clause 6 are
defined using the DL reference measurement channel H-Set 12 unless
otherwise stated, specified in subclause C.8.1.12 and the downlink
physical channel setup according to table E.5.4B.

For the additional requirements for DC-HSDPA, the spacing of the carrier
frequencies of the two cells in downlink shall be 5 MHz, and it is
assumed that the UE is configured with a single uplink carrier
frequency.

For the additional requirements for DC-HSUPA, the spacing of the carrier
frequencies of the two cells in both downlink and uplink shall be 5 MHz.

For the additional requirements for single band/dual band 4C-HSDPA, the
spacing of the adjacent carrier frequencies in downlink and uplink shall
be 5 MHz.

For each single band/dual band 4C-HSDPA configuration, the UL-DL carrier
separation is defined as minimum (maximum) when the UL carrier is placed
at minimum (maximum) possible distance in frequency from the closest
carrier in the corresponding DL band for which the requirement applies.

The requirements specified in Section 6 in general could be different
for each single band/dual band 4C-HSDPA configuration within the same
operating band(s).

6.1A Reference input power adjustment for a dual band device
------------------------------------------------------------

For the UE which supports DB-DC-HSDPA configuration in clause 4.2, the
reference input powers (HS-PDSCH\_Ec and Î~or~) of core requirements
specified in test cases 6.5C and 6.7C are allowed to be increased by the
amount given in Table 6.1A for the applicable bands.

Table 6.1A: Allowed increase of HS-PDSCH Ec and Î~or~ for UE which
supports DB-DC-HSDPA.

  --------------------------- ------------------------------------------------ ------------------
  DB-DC-HSDPA Configuration   Allowed increase of HS-PDSCH Ec and Î~or~ (dB)   Applicable bands
  1                           0.5                                              I, VIII
  2                           1                                                II, IV
  3                           0.5                                              I, V
  6                           0.6                                              I
  --------------------------- ------------------------------------------------ ------------------

For the UE which supports dual band 4C-HSDPA configuration in Table
4.0B, the reference input powers (HS-PDSCH\_Ec and Îor) of core
requirements specified in clause 6.5C, 6.5E and 6.7C are allowed to be
increased by the amount given in Table 6.1B for the applicable bands.

Table 6.1B: Allowed increase of HS-PDSCH Ec and Î~or~ for UE which
supports dual band 4C-HSDPA

+------------------------+------------------------+------------------+
| Dual Band 4C-HSDPA     | Allowed increase of    | Applicable bands |
| Configuration          | HS-PDSCH Ec and Î~or~  |                  |
|                        | (dB)                   |                  |
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------+
| I-2-VIII-1             | 0.5                    | I, VIII          |
|                        |                        |                  |
| I-3-VIII-1             |                        |                  |
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------+
| II-1-IV-2              | 1                      | II, IV           |
|                        |                        |                  |
| II-2-IV-1              |                        |                  |
|                        |                        |                  |
| II-2-IV-2              |                        |                  |
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------+
| I-1-V-2                | 0.5                    | I, V             |
|                        |                        |                  |
| I-2-V-1                |                        |                  |
|                        |                        |                  |
| I-2-V-2                |                        |                  |
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------+
| I-1-XXXII-2            | 0.6                    | I                |
|                        |                        |                  |
| I-2-XXXII-1            |                        |                  |
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------+

6.2 Reference Sensitivity Level
-------------------------------

### 6.2.1 Definition and applicability

The reference sensitivity level \<REFSENS\> is the minimum mean power
received at the UE antenna port at which the Bit Error Ratio (BER) shall
not exceed a specific value

The requirements and this test apply to all types of UTRA for the FDD
UE.

### 6.2.2 Minimum Requirements

The BER shall not exceed 0,001 for the parameters specified in table
6.2.1.

Table 6.2.1: Test parameters for Reference Sensitivity Level

+-----------------------+--------------+-------------+--------------+
| Operating Band        | Unit         | DPCH\_Ec    | \<REFÎ~or~\> |
|                       |              |             |              |
|                       |              | \<REFSENS\> |              |
+-----------------------+--------------+-------------+--------------+
| I                     | dBm/3.84 MHz | -117        | -106.7       |
+-----------------------+--------------+-------------+--------------+
| II                    | dBm/3.84 MHz | -115        | -104.7       |
+-----------------------+--------------+-------------+--------------+
| III                   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -114        | -103.7       |
+-----------------------+--------------+-------------+--------------+
| IV                    | dBm/3.84 MHz | -117        | -106.7       |
+-----------------------+--------------+-------------+--------------+
| V                     | dBm/3.84 MHz | -115        | -104.7       |
+-----------------------+--------------+-------------+--------------+
| VI                    | dBm/3.84 MHz | -117        | -106.7       |
+-----------------------+--------------+-------------+--------------+
| VII                   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -115        | -104.7       |
+-----------------------+--------------+-------------+--------------+
| VIII                  | dBm/3.84 MHz | -114        | -103.7       |
+-----------------------+--------------+-------------+--------------+
| IX                    | dBm/3.84 MHz | -116        | -105.7       |
+-----------------------+--------------+-------------+--------------+
| X                     | dBm/3.84 MHz | -117        | -106.7       |
+-----------------------+--------------+-------------+--------------+
| XI                    | dBm/3.84 MHz | -117        | -106.7       |
+-----------------------+--------------+-------------+--------------+
| XII                   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -114        | -103.7       |
+-----------------------+--------------+-------------+--------------+
| XIII                  | dBm/3.84 MHz | -114        | -103.7       |
+-----------------------+--------------+-------------+--------------+
| XIV                   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -114        | -103.7       |
+-----------------------+--------------+-------------+--------------+
| XIX                   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -117        | -106.7       |
+-----------------------+--------------+-------------+--------------+
| XX                    | dBm/3.84 MHz | -114        | -103.7       |
+-----------------------+--------------+-------------+--------------+
| XXI                   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -117        | -106.7       |
+-----------------------+--------------+-------------+--------------+
| XXII                  | dBm/3.84 MHz | -114        | -103.7       |
+-----------------------+--------------+-------------+--------------+
| XXV                   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -113.5      | -103.2       |
+-----------------------+--------------+-------------+--------------+
| XXVI                  | dBm/3.84 MHz | -113.5      | -103.2       |
+-----------------------+--------------+-------------+--------------+
| NOTE 1: For Power     |              |             |              |
| class 3 and 3bis this |              |             |              |
| shall be at the       |              |             |              |
| maximum output power. |              |             |              |
|                       |              |             |              |
| NOTE 2: For Power     |              |             |              |
| class 4 this shall be |              |             |              |
| at the maximum output |              |             |              |
| power.                |              |             |              |
|                       |              |             |              |
| NOTE 3: For the UE    |              |             |              |
| which supports both   |              |             |              |
| Band III and Band IX  |              |             |              |
| operating             |              |             |              |
| frequencies, the      |              |             |              |
| reference sensitivity |              |             |              |
| level of -114.5 dBm   |              |             |              |
| DPCH\_Ec \<REFSENS\>  |              |             |              |
| shall apply for Band  |              |             |              |
| IX. The corresponding |              |             |              |
| \<REFÎ~or~\> is       |              |             |              |
| -104.2 dBm.           |              |             |              |
|                       |              |             |              |
| NOTE 4: For the UE    |              |             |              |
| which supports both   |              |             |              |
| Band XI and Band XXI  |              |             |              |
| operating             |              |             |              |
| frequencies, the      |              |             |              |
| reference sensitivity |              |             |              |
| level is FFS.         |              |             |              |
+-----------------------+--------------+-------------+--------------+

For the UE which supports DB-DC-HSDPA configuration in Table 6.2.1A, the
reference sensitivity level DPCH\_Ec \<REFSENS\> and corresponding
\<REFÎ~or~\> in Table 6.2.1 are allowed to be increased by the amount
given in Table 6.2.1A for the applicable bands.

Table 6.2.1A: Allowed de-sensitization relative to reference
sensitivity\
for UE which supports DB-DC-HSDPA.

  --------------------------- ------------------------------- ------------------
  DB-DC-HSDPA Configuration   Allowed de-sensitization (dB)   Applicable bands
  2                           1                               II, IV
  --------------------------- ------------------------------- ------------------

For the UE which supports dual band 4C-HSDPA configuration in Table
6.2.1B, the reference sensitivity level DPCH\_Ec \<REFSENS\> and
corresponding \<REFÎ~or~\> in Table 6.2.1 are allowed to be increased by
the amount given in Table 6.2.1B for the applicable bands.

Table 6.2.1B: Allowed de-sensitization relative to reference sensitivity
for UE which supports dual band 4C-HSDPA.

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| **Dual Band 4C-HSDPA | **Allowed            | **Applicable bands** |
| Configuration**      | de-sensitization     |                      |
|                      | (dB)**               |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| II-1-IV-2            | 1                    | II, IV               |
|                      |                      |                      |
| II-2-IV-1            |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| II-2-IV-2            |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

For the UE which supports E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation the
reference sensitivity level DPCH\_Ec \<REFSENS\> and corresponding
\<REFÎ~or~\> in Table 6.2.1 are allowed to be increased by the amount
given in Table 7.3.1-1A of TS 36.101\[10\] for those UTRA operating
bands corresponding to the E-UTRA operating bands that belong to the
supported inter-band carrier aggregation configurations. The tolerance
in Table 7.3.1-1A of TS 36.101\[10\] does not apply to supported UTRA
operating bands with frequency range below 1 GHz that correspond to the
E-UTRA operating bands that belong to the supported inter-band carrier
aggregation configurations when such bands are belonging only to band
combination(s) where one band is \<1GHz and another band is \>1.7GHz and
there is no harmonic relationship between the low band UL and high band
DL.

In case the UE supports DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA configurations
and one or more of the E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation
configurations listed in Table 7.3.1-1A of TS36.101\[10\] with a UTRA
operating band that belongs to UTRA and E-UTRA carrier aggregation
configurations, then

\- When the UTRA operating band frequency range is ≤ 1GHz, the
applicable additional tolerance shall be the average of the applicable
tolerances, truncated to one decimal place for that operating band among
the supported DB-DC-HSDPA, dual band 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA CA
configurations, with the DB-DC-HSDPA, dual carrier 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA
CA configurations counted separately. In case there is a harmonic
relation between low band UL and high band DL, then the maximum
tolerance among the different supported carrier aggregation
configurations involving such band shall be applied

\- When the UTRA operating band frequency range is \>1GHz, the
applicable additional tolerance shall be the maximum tolerance that
applies for that operating band among the supported DB-DC-HSDPA, dual
band HSDPA, and E-UTRA CA configurations.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.3.1.

### 6.2.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BER shall not exceed 0,001 for the parameters
specified in table 6.2.2.

The lack of the reception sensitivity decreases the coverage area at the
far side from Node B.

### 6.2.4 Method of test

##### 6.2.4.1 Initial conditions {#initial-conditions-20 .H6}

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.1.

2\) Channel conditions are initially set up with received CPICH\_RSCP
\>-85 dBm. The relative power level of downlink physical channels to Ior
are set up according to clause E.2.1. The parameter settings of the cell
are set up according to TS 34.108 \[3\], clause 6.1.5 for \"Default
settings for a serving cell in a single cell environment\".

3\) Switch on the phone.

4\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure in
TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.2.

5\) The RF parameters are set up according to table 6.2.2.

6\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback test.

##### 6.2.4.2 Procedure {#procedure-20 .H6}

1\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE until
the UE output power shall be maximum level.

2\) Measure the BER of DCH received from the UE at the SS.

### 6.2.5 Test requirements

The measured BER, derived in step 2), shall not exceed 0,001.

Table 6.2.2: Test parameters for Reference Sensitivity Level

+------------------+------------------+-------------+--------------+
| Operating Band   | Unit             | DPCH\_Ec    | \<REFÎ~or~\> |
|                  |                  |             |              |
|                  |                  | \<REFSENS\> |              |
+------------------+------------------+-------------+--------------+
| I                | dBm/3.84 MHz     | -116.3      | -106         |
+------------------+------------------+-------------+--------------+
| II               | dBm/3.84 MHz     | -114.3      | -104         |
+------------------+------------------+-------------+--------------+
| III              | dBm/3.84 MHz     | -113.3      | -103         |
+------------------+------------------+-------------+--------------+
| IV               | dBm/3.84 MHz     | -116.3      | -106         |
+------------------+------------------+-------------+--------------+
| V                | dBm/3.84 MHz     | -114.3      | -104         |
+------------------+------------------+-------------+--------------+
| VI               | dBm/3.84 MHz     | -116.3      | -106         |
+------------------+------------------+-------------+--------------+
| VII              | dBm/3.84 MHz     | -114.3      | -104         |
+------------------+------------------+-------------+--------------+
| VIII             | dBm/3.84 MHz     | -113.3      | -103         |
+------------------+------------------+-------------+--------------+
| IX               | dBm/3.84 MHz     | -115.3      | -105         |
+------------------+------------------+-------------+--------------+
| X                | dBm/3.84 MHz     | -116.3      | -106         |
+------------------+------------------+-------------+--------------+
| XI               | dBm/3.84 MHz     | -116.3      | -106         |
+------------------+------------------+-------------+--------------+
| XII              | dBm/3.84 MHz     | -113.3      | -103         |
+------------------+------------------+-------------+--------------+
| XIII             | dBm/3.84 MHz     | -113.3      | -103         |
+------------------+------------------+-------------+--------------+
| XIV              | dBm/3.84 MHz     | -113.3      | -103         |
+------------------+------------------+-------------+--------------+
| XIX              | dBm/3.84 MHz     | -116.3      | -106         |
+------------------+------------------+-------------+--------------+
| XX               | dBm/3.84 MHz     | -113.3      | -103         |
+------------------+------------------+-------------+--------------+
| XXI              | dBm/3.84 MHz     | -116.3      | -106         |
+------------------+------------------+-------------+--------------+
| XXII             | dBm/3.84 MHz     | -113.3      | -103         |
+------------------+------------------+-------------+--------------+
| XXV              | dBm/3.84 MHz     | -112.8      | -102.5       |
+------------------+------------------+-------------+--------------+
| **XXVI**         | **dBm/3.84 MHz** | **-112.8**  | **-102.5**   |
+------------------+------------------+-------------+--------------+
| NOTE 1: For      |                  |             |              |
| Power class 3    |                  |             |              |
| and 3bis this    |                  |             |              |
| shall be at the  |                  |             |              |
| maximum output   |                  |             |              |
| power.           |                  |             |              |
|                  |                  |             |              |
| NOTE 2: For      |                  |             |              |
| Power class 4    |                  |             |              |
| this shall be at |                  |             |              |
| the maximum      |                  |             |              |
| output power.    |                  |             |              |
|                  |                  |             |              |
| NOTE 3: For the  |                  |             |              |
| UE which         |                  |             |              |
| supports both    |                  |             |              |
| Band III and     |                  |             |              |
| Band IX          |                  |             |              |
| operating        |                  |             |              |
| frequencies, the |                  |             |              |
| reference        |                  |             |              |
| sensitivity      |                  |             |              |
| level of -113.8  |                  |             |              |
| dBm DPCH\_Ec     |                  |             |              |
| \<REFSENS\>      |                  |             |              |
| shall apply for  |                  |             |              |
| Band IX. The     |                  |             |              |
| corresponding    |                  |             |              |
| \<REFÎ~or~\> is  |                  |             |              |
| -103.5 dBm.      |                  |             |              |
|                  |                  |             |              |
| NOTE 4: For the  |                  |             |              |
| UE which         |                  |             |              |
| supports both    |                  |             |              |
| Band XI and Band |                  |             |              |
| XXI operating    |                  |             |              |
| frequencies, the |                  |             |              |
| reference        |                  |             |              |
| sensitivity      |                  |             |              |
| level is FFS.    |                  |             |              |
+------------------+------------------+-------------+--------------+

For the UE, which supports DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA and/or
E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation the reference sensitivity level of
DPCH\_Ec \<REFSENS\> and corresponding \< REFÎ~or~\>in Table 6.2.2 are
allowed to be increased by the amount defined in minimum requirement
clause.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

6.2A Reference Sensitivity Level for DC-HSDPA
---------------------------------------------

### 6.2A.1 Definition and applicability

The reference sensitivity level \<REFSENS\> is the minimum mean power
received at the UE antenna port at which the Block Error Ratio (BLER) on
each individual cell shall not exceed a specific value.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 8 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support DC-HSDPA.

### 6.2A.2 Minimum Requirements

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.2A.1.

Table 6.2A.1: Test parameters for reference sensitivity, additional
requirement for DC-HSDPA

+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| Operating Band   | Unit         | HS-PDSCH\_Ec     | \<REFÎ~or~\> |
|                  |              | \<REFSENS\>      |              |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| I                | dBm/3.84 MHz | -113             | -102.7       |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| II               | dBm/3.84 MHz | -111             | -100.7       |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| III              | dBm/3.84 MHz | -110             | -99.7        |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| IV               | dBm/3.84 MHz | -113             | -102.7       |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| V                | dBm/3.84 MHz | -111             | -100.7       |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| VI               | dBm/3.84 MHz | -113             | -102.7       |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| VII              | dBm/3.84 MHz | -111             | -100.7       |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| VIII             | dBm/3.84 MHz | -110             | -99.7        |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| IX               | dBm/3.84 MHz | -112             | -101.7       |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| X                | dBm/3.84 MHz | -113             | -102.7       |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| XI               | dBm/3.84 MHz | -113             | -102.7       |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| XII              | dBm/3.84 MHz | -110             | -99.7        |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| XIII             | dBm/3.84 MHz | -110             | -99.7        |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| XIV              | dBm/3.84 MHz | -110             | -99.7        |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| XIX              | dBm/3.84 MHz | -113             | -102.7       |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| XX               | dBm/3.84 MHz | -110             | -99.7        |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| XXI              | dBm/3.84 MHz | -113             | -102.7       |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| XXII             | dBm/3.84 MHz | -110             | -99.7        |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| XXV              | dBm/3.84 MHz | -109.5           | -99.2        |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| XXVI             | dBm/3.84 MHz | -109.5           | -99.2        |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| NOTE 1: For      |              |                  |              |
| Power class 3    |              |                  |              |
| and 3bis this    |              |                  |              |
| shall be at the  |              |                  |              |
| maximum output   |              |                  |              |
| power            |              |                  |              |
|                  |              |                  |              |
| NOTE 2: For      |              |                  |              |
| Power class 4    |              |                  |              |
| this shall be at |              |                  |              |
| the maximum      |              |                  |              |
| output power     |              |                  |              |
|                  |              |                  |              |
| NOTE 3: For the  |              |                  |              |
| UE which         |              |                  |              |
| supports both    |              |                  |              |
| Band III and     |              |                  |              |
| Band IX          |              |                  |              |
| operating        |              |                  |              |
| frequencies, the |              |                  |              |
| reference        |              |                  |              |
| sensitivity      |              |                  |              |
| level of -110.5  |              |                  |              |
| dBm HS-PDSCH\_Ec |              |                  |              |
| \<REFSENS\>      |              |                  |              |
| shall apply for  |              |                  |              |
| Band IX. The     |              |                  |              |
| corresponding    |              |                  |              |
| \<REFÎ~or~\> is  |              |                  |              |
| -100.2 dBm       |              |                  |              |
|                  |              |                  |              |
| NOTE 4: For the  |              |                  |              |
| UE which         |              |                  |              |
| supports both    |              |                  |              |
| Band XI and Band |              |                  |              |
| XXI operating    |              |                  |              |
| frequencies, the |              |                  |              |
| reference        |              |                  |              |
| sensitivity      |              |                  |              |
| level is FFS.    |              |                  |              |
|                  |              |                  |              |
| NOTE 5 For the   |              |                  |              |
| UE which         |              |                  |              |
| supports both    |              |                  |              |
| Band V and Band  |              |                  |              |
| XXVI operating   |              |                  |              |
| frequencies, the |              |                  |              |
| reference        |              |                  |              |
| sensitivity      |              |                  |              |
| level of -111    |              |                  |              |
| dBm HS-PDSCH\_Ec |              |                  |              |
| \<REFSENS\>      |              |                  |              |
| shall apply for  |              |                  |              |
| Band XXVI when   |              |                  |              |
| any of the       |              |                  |              |
| carrier          |              |                  |              |
| frequencies of   |              |                  |              |
| the assigned     |              |                  |              |
| UTRA channel is  |              |                  |              |
| within 869-894   |              |                  |              |
| MHz. The         |              |                  |              |
| corresponding    |              |                  |              |
| \<REFÎ~or~\> is  |              |                  |              |
| -100.7 dBm.      |              |                  |              |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+

For the UE which supports DB-DC-HSDPA configuration in Table 6.2A.1A,
the reference sensitivity level HS-PDSCH\_Ec \<REFSENS\> and
corresponding \<REFÎ~or~\> in Table 6.2A.1 are allowed to be increased
by the amount given in Table 6.2A.1A for the applicable bands.

Table 6.2A.1A: Allowed de-sensitization relative to reference
sensitivity for UE which supports DB-DC-HSDPA.

  --------------------------- ------------------------------- ------------------
  DB-DC-HSDPA Configuration   Allowed de-sensitization (dB)   Applicable bands
  2                           1                               II, IV
  4                           1                               I, XI
  --------------------------- ------------------------------- ------------------

For the UE which supports dual band 4C-HSDPA configuration in Table
6.2A.1B, the reference sensitivity level HS-PDSCH\_Ec \<REFSENS\> and
corresponding \<REFÎ~or~\> in Table 6.2A.1 are allowed to be increased
by the amount given in Table 6.2A.1B for the applicable bands.

Table 6.2A.1B: Allowed de-sensitization relative to reference
sensitivity for UE which supports dual band 4C-HSDPA.

+------------------------+------------------------+------------------+
| Dual Band 4C-HSDPA     | Allowed                | Applicable bands |
| Configuration          | de-sensitization (dB)  |                  |
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------+
| II-1-IV-2              | 1                      | II, IV           |
|                        |                        |                  |
| II-2-IV-1              |                        |                  |
|                        |                        |                  |
| II-2-IV-2              |                        |                  |
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------+

For the UE which supports E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation the
reference sensitivity level HS-PDSCH\_Ec \<REFSENS\> and corresponding
\<REFÎ~or~\> in Table 6.2A.1 are allowed to be increased by the amount
given in Table 7.3.1-1A of TS 36.101\[11\] for those UTRA operating
bands corresponding to the E-UTRA operating bands that belong to the
supported inter-band carrier aggregation configurations. The tolerance
in Table 7.3.1-1A of TS 36.101\[11\] does not apply to supported UTRA
operating bands with frequency range below 1 GHz that correspond to the
E-UTRA operating bands that belong to the supported inter-band carrier
aggregation configurations when such bands are belonging only to band
combination(s) where one band is \<1GHz and another band is \>1.7GHz and
there is no harmonic relationship between the low band UL and high band
DL.

In case the UE supports DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA configurations
and one or more of the E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation
configurations listed in Table 7.3.1-1A of TS36.101\[11\] with a UTRA
operating band that belongs to UTRA and E-UTRA carrier aggregation
configurations, then

\- When the UTRA operating band frequency range is ≤ 1GHz, the
applicable additional tolerance shall be the average of the applicable
tolerances, truncated to one decimal place for that operating band among
the supported DB-DC-HSDPA, dual band 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA CA
configurations, with the DB-DC-HSDPA, dual carrier 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA
CA configurations counted separately. In case there is a harmonic
relation between low band UL and high band DL, then the maximum
tolerance among the different supported carrier aggregation
configurations involving such band shall be applied

\- When the UTRA operating band frequency range is \>1GHz, the
applicable additional tolerance shall be the maximum tolerance that
applies for that operating band among the supported DB-DC-HSDPA, dual
band 4C-HSDPA, and E-UTRA CA configurations.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.3.2.

### 6.2A.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BLER of HS-PDSCH on each individual cell shall not
exceed 0,1 for the parameters specified in table 6.2A.3 for the DL
reference channel H-Set 12 specified in Annex C.8.1.12.

The lack of the reception sensitivity decreases the HSDPA coverage area
at the far side from Node B.

### 6.2A.4 Method of test

##### 6.2A.4.1 Initial conditions {#a.4.1-initial-conditions-14 .H6}

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.30.

2\) Channel conditions are initially set up with received CPICH\_RSCP
\>-85 dBm. The relative power level of primary downlink physical
channels to Ior are set up according to clause E.5.0.

3\) Switch on the phone.

4\) A call is set up according to the Generic DC-HSDPA setup procedure
in TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.13 with exceptions for information
elements listed in table 6.2A.2.

5\) The RF parameters are set up according to table 6.2A.3 for both
primary and secondary serving cells.

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (DC-HSDPA) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-dc-hsdpa .H6}

Table 6.2A.2: Specific Message Contents for reference sensitivity,
additional requirement for DC-HSDPA

  ---------------------------------- ------------------------------ ---------
  Information Element                Value/remark                   Version
  Downlink HS-PDSCH Information                                     
  \- CHOICE mode                     FDD                            
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured       Not Present                    Rel-7
  \- HS-DSCH TB size table           octet aligned (for H-Set 12)   Rel-7
  Downlink secondary cell info FDD                                  Rel-8
  \- CHOICE Configuration info       New configuration              
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured       Not Present                    
  \- HS-DSCH TB size table           octet aligned (for H-Set 12)   
  ---------------------------------- ------------------------------ ---------

See TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback test.

##### 6.2A.4.2 Procedure {#a.4.2-procedure-14 .H6}

1\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE until
the UE output power shall be maximum level as in Table 5.2AA.2 or
5.2AA.3 depending on tested band.

2\) Measure the BLER of HS-PDSCH on each individual cell received from
the UE at the SS by counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the
UL HS-DPCCH (BLER = (NACK + statDTX)/(NACK + statDTX + ACK)).

### 6.2A.5 Test requirements

The measured BLER, derived in step 2), shall not exceed 0,1 on each
individual cell. The minimum number of measurements required for a
statistically significant result to this test is clarified in annex
F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.0.

Table 6.2A.3: Test parameters for reference sensitivity, additional
requirement for DC-HSDPA

+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| Operating Band   | Unit         | HS-PDSCH\_Ec     | \<REFÎ~or~\> |
|                  |              | \<REFSENS\>      |              |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| I                | dBm/3.84 MHz | -112.3           | -102         |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| II               | dBm/3.84 MHz | -110.3           | -100         |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| III              | dBm/3.84 MHz | -109.3           | -99          |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| IV               | dBm/3.84 MHz | -112.3           | -102         |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| V                | dBm/3.84 MHz | -110.3           | -100         |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| VI               | dBm/3.84 MHz | -112.3           | -102         |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| VII              | dBm/3.84 MHz | -110.3           | -100         |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| VIII             | dBm/3.84 MHz | -109.3           | -99          |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| IX               | dBm/3.84 MHz | -111.3           | -101         |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| X                | dBm/3.84 MHz | -112.3           | -102         |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| XI               | dBm/3.84 MHz | -112.3           | -102         |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| XII              | dBm/3.84 MHz | -109.3           | -99          |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| XIII             | dBm/3.84 MHz | -109.3           | -99          |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| XIV              | dBm/3.84 MHz | -109.3           | -99          |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| XIX              | dBm/3.84 MHz | -112.3           | -102         |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| XX               | dBm/3.84 MHz | -109.3           | -99          |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| XXI              | dBm/3.84 MHz | -112.3           | -102         |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| XXII             | dBm/3.84 MHz | -119.3           | -99          |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| XXV              | dBm/3.84 MHz | -108.8           | -98.5        |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| XXVI             | dBm/3.84 MHz | -108.8           | -98.5        |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+
| NOTE 1 For Power |              |                  |              |
| class 3 and 3bis |              |                  |              |
| this shall be at |              |                  |              |
| the maximum      |              |                  |              |
| output power.    |              |                  |              |
|                  |              |                  |              |
| NOTE 2 For Power |              |                  |              |
| class 4 this     |              |                  |              |
| shall be at the  |              |                  |              |
| maximum output   |              |                  |              |
| power.           |              |                  |              |
|                  |              |                  |              |
| NOTE 3 For the   |              |                  |              |
| UE which         |              |                  |              |
| supports both    |              |                  |              |
| Band III and     |              |                  |              |
| Band IX          |              |                  |              |
| operating        |              |                  |              |
| frequencies, the |              |                  |              |
| reference        |              |                  |              |
| sensitivity      |              |                  |              |
| level of -109.8  |              |                  |              |
| dBm HS-PDSCH\_Ec |              |                  |              |
| \<REFSENS\>      |              |                  |              |
| shall apply for  |              |                  |              |
| Band IX. The     |              |                  |              |
| corresponding    |              |                  |              |
| \<REFÎ~or~\> is  |              |                  |              |
| -99.5 dBm.       |              |                  |              |
|                  |              |                  |              |
| NOTE 4: For the  |              |                  |              |
| UE which         |              |                  |              |
| supports both    |              |                  |              |
| Band XI and Band |              |                  |              |
| XXI operating    |              |                  |              |
| frequencies, the |              |                  |              |
| reference        |              |                  |              |
| sensitivity      |              |                  |              |
| level is FFS.    |              |                  |              |
|                  |              |                  |              |
| NOTE 5 For the   |              |                  |              |
| UE which         |              |                  |              |
| supports both    |              |                  |              |
| Band V and Band  |              |                  |              |
| XXVI operating   |              |                  |              |
| frequencies, the |              |                  |              |
| reference        |              |                  |              |
| sensitivity      |              |                  |              |
| level of -110.3  |              |                  |              |
| dBm HS-PDSCH\_Ec |              |                  |              |
| \<REFSENS\>      |              |                  |              |
| shall apply for  |              |                  |              |
| Band XXVI when   |              |                  |              |
| any of the       |              |                  |              |
| carrier          |              |                  |              |
| frequencies of   |              |                  |              |
| the assigned     |              |                  |              |
| UTRA channel is  |              |                  |              |
| within 869-894   |              |                  |              |
| MHz. The         |              |                  |              |
| corresponding    |              |                  |              |
| \<REFÎ~or~\> is  |              |                  |              |
| -100 dBm.        |              |                  |              |
+------------------+--------------+------------------+--------------+

For the UE, which supports DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA and/or
E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation the reference sensitivity level of
HS-PDSCH\_Ec \<REFSENS\> and corresponding \< REFÎ~or~\>in Table 6.2A.3
are allowed to be increased by the amount defined in minimum requirement
clause.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

6.2B Reference Sensitivity Level for DB-DC-HSDPA
------------------------------------------------

### 6.2B.1 Definition and applicability

The reference sensitivity level \<REFSENS\> is the minimum mean power
received at the UE antenna port at which the Block Error Ratio (BLER) on
each individual cell shall not exceed a specific value.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 9 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support DB-DC-HSDPA.

DB-DC-HSDPA is designed to operate in configurations specified in clause
4.2.

### 6.2B.2 Minimum Requirements

For all requirements listed in Table 6.2B.1, corresponding to the
specific DB-DC-HSDPA configuration(s) supported by the UE, (see clause
4.2), the BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1.

Table 6.2B.1: Test parameters for reference sensitivity, additional
requirement for DB-DC-HSDPA.

+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| DB-      | DL Band | UL Band | Unit     | HS-P     | \<RE     |
| DC-HSDPA |         |         |          | DSCH\_Ec | FÎ~or~\> |
| confi    |         |         |          |          |          |
| guration |         |         |          | \<R      |          |
|          |         |         |          | EFSENS\> |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| 1        | I       | I       | dBm/3.84 | -113     | -102.7   |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | VIII    |         | dBm/3.84 | -110     | -99.7    |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | I       | VIII    | dBm/3.84 | -113     | -102.7   |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | VIII    |         | dBm/3.84 | -110     | -99.7    |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| 2        | II      | II      | dBm/3.84 | -110     | -99.7    |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | IV      |         | dBm/3.84 | -112     | -101.7   |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | II      | IV      | dBm/3.84 | -110     | -99.7    |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | IV      |         | dBm/3.84 | -112     | -101.7   |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| 3        | I       | I       | dBm/3.84 | -113     | -102.7   |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | V       |         | dBm/3.84 | -111     | -100.7   |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | I       | V       | dBm/3.84 | -113     | -102.7   |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | V       |         | dBm/3.84 | -111     | -100.7   |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| 4        | I       | I       | dBm/3.84 | -112     | -101.7   |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | XI      |         | dBm/3.84 | -112     | -101.7   |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | I       | XI      | dBm/3.84 | -112     | -101.7   |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | XI      |         | dBm/3.84 | -112     | -101.7   |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5        | II      | II      | dBm/3.84 | -111     | -100.7   |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | V       |         | dBm/3.84 | -111     | -100.7   |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | II      | V       | dBm/3.84 | -111     | -100.7   |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | V       |         | dBm/3.84 | -111     | -100.7   |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6        | I       | I       | dBm/3.84 | -113     | -102.7   |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | XXXII   |         | dBm/3.84 | -113     | -102.7   |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE 1:  |         |         |          |          |          |
| For      |         |         |          |          |          |
| Power    |         |         |          |          |          |
| class 3  |         |         |          |          |          |
| and 3bis |         |         |          |          |          |
| this     |         |         |          |          |          |
| shall be |         |         |          |          |          |
| at the   |         |         |          |          |          |
| maximum  |         |         |          |          |          |
| output   |         |         |          |          |          |
| power.   |         |         |          |          |          |
|          |         |         |          |          |          |
| NOTE 2:  |         |         |          |          |          |
| For      |         |         |          |          |          |
| Power    |         |         |          |          |          |
| class 4  |         |         |          |          |          |
| this     |         |         |          |          |          |
| shall be |         |         |          |          |          |
| at the   |         |         |          |          |          |
| maximum  |         |         |          |          |          |
| output   |         |         |          |          |          |
| power.   |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.3.3.

### 6.2B.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BLER of HS-PDSCH on each individual cell shall not
exceed 0,1 for the parameters specified in table 6.2B.2 for the DL
reference channel H-Set 12 specified in Annex C.8.1.12.

The lack of the reception sensitivity decreases the HSDPA coverage area
at the far side from Node B.

### 6.2B.4 Method of test

##### 6.2B.4.1 Initial conditions {#b.4.1-initial-conditions-10 .H6}

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.30.

2\) Channel conditions are initially set up with received CPICH\_RSCP
\>-85 dBm. The relative power level of primary downlink physical
channels to Ior are set up according to clause E.5.0.

3\) Switch on the phone.

4\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure in
TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.13 with exceptions for information
elements listed in table 6.2B.2.

5\) The RF parameters are set up according to table 6.2B.3 for both
primary and secondary serving cells.

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (DC-HSDPA) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-dc-hsdpa-1 .H6}

Table 6.2B.2: Specific Message Contents for reference sensitivity,\
additional requirement for DB-DC-HSDPA

  ---------------------------------- ------------------------------ ---------
  Information Element                Value/remark                   Version
  Downlink HS-PDSCH Information                                     
  \- CHOICE mode                     FDD                            
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured       Not Present                    Rel-7
  \- HS-DSCH TB size table           octet aligned (for H-Set 12)   Rel-7
  Downlink secondary cell info FDD                                  Rel-8
  \- CHOICE Configuration info       New configuration              
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured       Not Present                    
  \- HS-DSCH TB size table           octet aligned (for H-Set 12)   
  ---------------------------------- ------------------------------ ---------

See TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback test.

##### 6.2B.4.2 Procedure {#b.4.2-procedure-10 .H6}

1\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE until
the UE output power shall be maximum level.

2\) Measure the BLER of HS-PDSCH on each individual cell received from
the UE at the SS.

### 6.2B.5 Test requirements

The measured BLER, derived in step 2), shall not exceed 0,1 on each
individual cell. The minimum number of measurements required for a
statistically significant result to this test is clarified in annex
F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.0.

Table 6.2B.3: Test parameters for reference sensitivity, additional
requirement for DB-DC-HSDPA

+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| DB-      | DL Band | UL Band | Unit     | HS-P     | \<RE     |
| DC-HSDPA |         |         |          | DSCH\_Ec | FÎ~or~\> |
| confi    |         |         |          |          |          |
| guration |         |         |          | \<R      |          |
|          |         |         |          | EFSENS\> |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| 1        | I       | I       | dBm/3.84 | -112.3   | -102     |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | VIII    |         | dBm/3.84 | -109.3   | -99      |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | I       | VIII    | dBm/3.84 | -112.3   | -102     |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | VIII    |         | dBm/3.84 | -109.3   | -99      |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| 2        | II      | II      | dBm/3.84 | -109.3   | -99      |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | IV      |         | dBm/3.84 | -111.3   | -101     |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | II      | IV      | dBm/3.84 | -109.3   | -99      |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | IV      |         | dBm/3.84 | -111.3   | -101     |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| 3        | I       | I       | dBm/3.84 | -112.3   | -102     |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | V       |         | dBm/3.84 | -110.3   | -100     |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | I       | V       | dBm/3.84 | -112.3   | -102     |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | V       |         | dBm/3.84 | -110.3   | -100     |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| 4        | I       | I       | dBm/3.84 | -111.3   | -101     |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | XI      |         | dBm/3.84 | -111.3   | -101     |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | I       | XI      | dBm/3.84 | -111.3   | -101     |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | XI      |         | dBm/3.84 | -111.3   | -101     |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5        | II      | II      | dBm/3.84 | -110.3   | -100     |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | V       |         | dBm/3.84 | -110.3   | -100     |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | II      | V       | dBm/3.84 | -110.3   | -100     |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | V       |         | dBm/3.84 | -110.3   | -100     |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6        | I       | I       | dBm/3.84 | -112.3   | -102     |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | XXXII   |         | dBm/3.84 | -112.3   | -102     |
|          |         |         | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE 1:  |         |         |          |          |          |
| For      |         |         |          |          |          |
| Power    |         |         |          |          |          |
| class 3  |         |         |          |          |          |
| and 3bis |         |         |          |          |          |
| this     |         |         |          |          |          |
| shall be |         |         |          |          |          |
| at the   |         |         |          |          |          |
| maximum  |         |         |          |          |          |
| output   |         |         |          |          |          |
| power.   |         |         |          |          |          |
|          |         |         |          |          |          |
| NOTE 2:  |         |         |          |          |          |
| For      |         |         |          |          |          |
| Power    |         |         |          |          |          |
| class 4  |         |         |          |          |          |
| this     |         |         |          |          |          |
| shall be |         |         |          |          |          |
| at the   |         |         |          |          |          |
| maximum  |         |         |          |          |          |
| output   |         |         |          |          |          |
| power.   |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

6.2C Reference Sensitivity Level for Single band 4C-HSDPA
---------------------------------------------------------

### 6.2C.1 Definition and applicability

The reference sensitivity level \<REFSENS\> is the minimum mean power
received at the UE antenna port at which the Block Error Ratio (BLER) on
each individual cell shall not exceed a specific value.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 10 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support Single band 4C-HSDPA
and HS-DSCH categories 29 to 32.

Single band 4C-HSDPA is designed to operate in configurations specified
in clause 4.2.

### 6.2C.2 Minimum Requirements

For all requirements listed in Table 6.2C.1, corresponding to the
specific single band 4C-HSDPA configuration(s) supported by the UE, (see
Table 4.0A), the BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed
0.1.

NOTE: The reference sensitivity level \<REFSENS\> requirement for single
band 4C-HSDPA is not applicable for dual uplink operation. However,
there might be a substantial Rx de-sensitization for the UE operating in
bands which have less than 80 MHz Tx-Rx frequency separation,
transmitting on more than one uplink frequency, at maximum power.

Table 6.2C.1: Test parameters for reference sensitivity, additional
requirement for single band 4C-HSDPA

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- -------------- -------------------------- -------------- --------------------------
  Single band 4C-HSDPA configuration                                                DL Band   Unit           HS-PDSCH\_Ec \<REFSENS\>   \<REFÎ~or~\>   UL-DL carrier separation
  I-3                                                                               I         dBm/3.84 MHz   -113                       -102.7         Minimum
  II-3, II-4                                                                        II        dBm/3.84 MHz   -111                       -100.7         Minimum
  NOTE 1 For Power class 3, 3bis and 4, this shall be at the maximum output power                                                                      
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- -------------- -------------------------- -------------- --------------------------

For the UE which supports DB-DC-HSDPA configuration in Table 6.2C.2, the
reference sensitivity level HS-PDSCH\_Ec \<REFSENS\> and corresponding
\<REFÎ~or~\> in Table 6.2C.1 are allowed to be increased by the amount
given in Table 6.2C.2 for the applicable bands.

Table 6.2C.2: Allowed de-sensitization relative to reference sensitivity
for UE which supports\
DB-DC-HSDPA

  --------------------------- ------------------------------- ------------------
  DB-DC-HSDPA Configuration   Allowed de-sensitization (dB)   Applicable bands
  2                           1                               II
  4                           1                               I
  --------------------------- ------------------------------- ------------------

For the UE which supports dual band 4C-HSDPA configuration in Table
6.2C.2A, the reference sensitivity level HS-PDSCH\_Ec \<REFSENS\> and
corresponding \<REFÎ~or~\> in Table 6.2C.1 are allowed to be increased
by the amount given in Table 6.2C.2A for the applicable bands.

Table 6.2C.2A: Allowed de-sensitization relative to reference
sensitivity for UE which supports dual band 4C-HSDPA.

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| **Dual Band 4C-HSDPA | **Allowed            | **Applicable bands** |
| Configuration**      | de-sensitization     |                      |
|                      | (dB)**               |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| II-1-IV-2            | 1                    | II                   |
|                      |                      |                      |
| II-2-IV-1            |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| II-2-IV-2            |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

For the UE which supports E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation the
reference sensitivity level HS-PDSCH\_Ec \<REFSENS\> and corresponding
\<REFÎ~or~\> in Table 6.2C.1 are allowed to be increased by the amount
given in Table 7.3.1-1A of TS 36.101\[11\] for those UTRA operating
bands corresponding to the E-UTRA operating bands that belong to the
supported inter-band carrier aggregation configurations. The tolerance
in Table 7.3.1-1A of TS 36.101\[11\] does not apply to supported UTRA
operating bands with frequency range below 1 GHz that correspond to the
E-UTRA operating bands that belong to the supported inter-band carrier
aggregation configurations when such bands are belonging only to band
combination(s) where one band is \<1GHz and another band is \>1.7GHz and
there is no harmonic relationship between the low band UL and high band
DL.

In case the UE supports DB-DC-HSDPA configurations and one or more of
the E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation configurations listed in Table
7.3.1-1A of TS36.101\[11\] with a UTRA operating band that belongs to
UTRA and E-UTRA carrier aggregation configurations, then

\- When the UTRA operating band frequency range is ≤ 1GHz, the
applicable additional tolerance shall be the average of the applicable
tolerances, truncated to one decimal place for that operating band among
the supported DB-DC-HSDPA and E-UTRA CA configurations, with the
DB-DC-HSDPA and E-UTRA CA configurations counted separately. In case
there is a harmonic relation between low band UL and high band DL, then
the maximum tolerance among the different supported carrier aggregation
configurations involving such band shall be applied

\- When the UTRA operating band frequency range is \>1GHz, the
applicable additional tolerance shall be the maximum tolerance that
applies for that operating band among the supported DB-DC-HSDPA and
E-UTRA CA configurations.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.3.4.

### 6.2C.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BLER of HS-PDSCH on each individual cell shall not
exceed 0,1 for the parameters specified in table 6.2C.4 for the DL
reference channel H-Set 1B specified in Annex C.8.1.1.

The lack of the reception sensitivity decreases the HSDPA coverage area
at the far side from Node B.

This test case tests only 3 carrier configurations.

### 6.2C.4 Method of test

##### 6.2C.4.1 Initial conditions {#c.4.1-initial-conditions-10 .H6}

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see
clauseG.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.48.

2\) Channel conditions are initially set up with received CPICH\_RSCP
\>-85 dBm. The relative power level of primary downlink physical
channels to Ior are set up according to clause E.5.0.

3\) Switch on the phone.

4\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure in
TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.16.

5\) The RF parameters are set up according to table 6.2C.3 for each
individual cells.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback test.

#### 6.2C.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE until
the UE output power shall be maximum level.

2\) Measure the BLER of HS-PDSCH on each individual cell received from
the UE at the SS.

### 6.2C.5 Test requirements

The measured BLER, derived in step 2), shall not exceed 0,1 on each
individual cell. The minimum number of measurements required for a
statistically significant result to this test is clarified in annex
F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.0.

Table 6.2C.3: Test parameters for reference sensitivity, additional
requirement for single band 4C-HSDPA.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- -------------- -------------------------- -------------- --------------------------
  Single band 4C-HSDPA configuration                                                DL Band   Unit           HS-PDSCH\_Ec \<REFSENS\>   \<REFÎ~or~\>   UL-DL carrier separation
  I-3                                                                               I         dBm/3.84 MHz   -112.3                     -102           Minimum
  II-3, II-4                                                                        II        dBm/3.84 MHz   -110.3                     -100           Minimum
  NOTE 1 For Power class 3, 3bis and 4, this shall be at the maximum output power                                                                      
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- -------------- -------------------------- -------------- --------------------------

For the UE, which supports DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA and/or
E-UTRA inter-band carrier aggregation the reference sensitivity level of
HS-PDSCH\_Ec \<REFSENS\> and corresponding \< REFÎ~or~\>in Table 6.2C.3
are allowed to be increased by the amount defined in minimum requirement
clause.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

6.2D Reference Sensitivity Level for Dual band 4C-HSDPA
-------------------------------------------------------

### 6.2D.1 Definition and applicability

The reference sensitivity level \<REFSENS\> is the minimum mean power
received at the UE antenna port at which the Block Error Ratio (BLER) on
each individual cell shall not exceed a specific value.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 10 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support dual band 4C-HSDPA and
HS-DSCH categories 31 or 32.

Dual band 4C-HSDPA is designed to operate in configurations specified in
clause 4.2.

### 6.2D.2 Minimum Requirements

For all requirements listed in Table 6.2D.1, corresponding to the
specific dual band 4C-HSDPA configuration(s) supported by the UE, (see
Table 4.0B), the BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed
0.1.

Note: The reference sensitivity level \<REFSENS\> requirement for dual
band 4C-HSDPA is not applicable for dual uplink operation. However,
there might be a substantial Rx de-sensitization for the UE operating in
bands which have less than 80 MHz Tx-Rx frequency separation,
transmitting on more than one uplink frequency, at maximum power.

Table 6.2D.1: Test parameters for reference sensitivity, additional
requirement for dual band 4C-HSDPA

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Dual    | DL Band | UL Band | Unit    | HS-PD   | \<REF   | **UL-DL |
| band    |         |         |         | SCH\_Ec | Î~or~\> | carrier |
| 4       |         |         |         | \<RE    |         | separ   |
| C-HSDPA |         |         |         | FSENS\> |         | ation** |
| config  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| uration |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-2     | I       | I       | d       | -113    | -102.7  | Minimum |
| -VIII-1 |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
| I-3     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| -VIII-1 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| I-2     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| -VIII-2 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| I-1     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| -VIII-2 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | VIII    |         | d       | -110    | -99.7   | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | I       | VIII    | d       | -113    | -102.7  | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | VIII    |         | d       | -110    | -99.7   | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| II      | II      | II      | d       | -110    | -99.7   | Minimum |
| -1-IV-2 |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
| II      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| -2-IV-1 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| II      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| -2-IV-2 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | d       | -112    | -101.7  | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | II      | IV      | d       | -110    | -99.7   | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | d       | -112    | -101.7  | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-1-V-2 | I       | I       | d       | -113    | -102.7  | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
| I-2-V-1 |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| I-2-V-2 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | V       |         | d       | -111    | -100.7  | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | I       | V       | d       | -113    | -102.7  | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | V       |         | d       | -111    | -100.7  | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I       | II      | II      | d       | -111    | -100.7  | Minimum |
| I-1-V-2 |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | V       |         | d       | -111    | -100.7  | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | II      | V       | d       | -111    | -100.7  | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | V       |         | d       | -111    | -100.7  | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-1-    | I       | I       | d       | -113    | -102.7  | Minimum |
| XXXII-2 |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
| I-2-    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| XXXII-1 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | XXXII   |         | d       | -113    | -102.7  | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| NOTE 1  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| For     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Power   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| class   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 3, 3bis |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and 4,  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| this    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| shall   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| be at   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| maximum |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| output  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| power   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.3.5.

### 6.2D.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BLER of HS-PDSCH on each individual cell shall not
exceed 0,1 for the parameters specified in table 6.2D.3 for the DL
reference channel H-Set 1C specified in Annex C.8.1.1.

The lack of the reception sensitivity decreases the HSDPA coverage area
at the far side from Node B.

This test case tests only 4 carrier configurations.

### 6.2D.4 Method of test

##### 6.2D.4.1 Initial conditions {#d.4.1-initial-conditions-8 .H6}

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.48.

2\) Channel conditions are initially set up with received CPICH\_RSCP
\>-85 dBm. The relative power level of primary downlink physical
channels to Ior are set up according to clause E.5.0.

3\) Switch on the phone.

4\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure in
TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause7.3.16.

5\) The RF parameters are set up according to table 6.2D.2 for each
individual cells.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback test.

##### 6.2D.4.2 Procedure {#d.4.2-procedure-8 .H6}

1\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE until
the UE output power shall be maximum level.

2\) Measure the BLER of HS-PDSCH on each individual cell received from
the UE at the SS.

### 6.2D.5 Test requirements

The measured BLER, derived in step 2), shall not exceed 0,1 on each
individual cell. The minimum number of measurements required for a
statistically significant result to this test is clarified in annex
F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.0.

Table 6.2D.2: Test parameters for reference sensitivity, additional
requirement for dual band 4C-HSDPA

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Dual    | DL Band | UL Band | Unit    | HS-PD   | \<REF   | **UL-DL |
| band    |         |         |         | SCH\_Ec | Î~or~\> | carrier |
| 4       |         |         |         | \<RE    |         | separ   |
| C-HSDPA |         |         |         | FSENS\> |         | ation** |
| config  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| uration |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-3     | I       | I       | d       | -112.3  | -102    | Minimum |
| -VIII-1 |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
| I-2     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| -VIII-2 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | VIII    |         | d       | -109.3  | -99     | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | I       | VIII    | d       | -112.3  | -102    | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | VIII    |         | d       | -109.3  | -99     | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| II      | II      | II      | d       | -109.3  | -99     | Minimum |
| -2-IV-2 |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | d       | -111.3  | -101    | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | II      | IV      | d       | -109.3  | -99     | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | d       | -111.3  | -101    | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-2-V-2 | I       | I       | d       | -112.3  | -102    | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | V       |         | d       | -110.3  | -100    | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | I       | V       | d       | -112.3  | -102    | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | V       |         | d       | -110.3  | -100    | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| NOTE 1  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| For     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Power   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| class   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 3, 3bis |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and 4,  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| this    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| shall   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| be at   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| maximum |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| output  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| power   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

6.2DA Reference Sensitivity Level for Dual band 4C-HSDPA (3 carrier)
--------------------------------------------------------------------

### 6.2DA.1 Definition and applicability

The reference sensitivity level \<REFSENS\> is the minimum mean power
received at the UE antenna port at which the Block Error Ratio (BLER) on
each individual cell shall not exceed a specific value.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 10 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support dual band 4C-HSDPA and
HS-DSCH categories 29 to 32.

Dual band 4C-HSDPA is designed to operate in configurations specified in
clause 4.2.

### 6.2DA.2 Minimum Requirements

For all requirements listed in Table 6.2DA.1, corresponding to the
specific dual band 4C-HSDPA configuration(s) supported by the UE, (see
Table 4.0B), the BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed
0.1.

Note: The reference sensitivity level \<REFSENS\> requirement for dual
band 4C-HSDPA is not applicable for dual uplink operation. However,
there might be a substantial Rx de-sensitization for the UE operating in
bands which have less than 80 MHz Tx-Rx frequency separation,
transmitting on more than one uplink frequency, at maximum power.

Table 6.2DA.1: Test parameters for reference sensitivity, additional
requirement for dual band 4C-HSDPA

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Dual    | DL Band | UL Band | Unit    | HS-PD   | \<REF   | **UL-DL |
| band    |         |         |         | SCH\_Ec | Î~or~\> | carrier |
| 4       |         |         |         | \<RE    |         | separ   |
| C-HSDPA |         |         |         | FSENS\> |         | ation** |
| config  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| uration |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-2     | I       | I       | d       | -113    | -102.7  | Minimum |
| -VIII-1 |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
| I-3     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| -VIII-1 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| I-2     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| -VIII-2 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| I-1     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| -VIII-2 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | VIII    |         | d       | -110    | -99.7   | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | I       | VIII    | d       | -113    | -102.7  | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | VIII    |         | d       | -110    | -99.7   | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| II      | II      | II      | d       | -110    | -99.7   | Minimum |
| -1-IV-2 |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
| II      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| -2-IV-1 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| II      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| -2-IV-2 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | d       | -112    | -101.7  | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | II      | IV      | d       | -110    | -99.7   | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | d       | -112    | -101.7  | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-1-V-2 | I       | I       | d       | -113    | -102.7  | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
| I-2-V-1 |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| I-2-V-2 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | V       |         | d       | -111    | -100.7  | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | I       | V       | d       | -113    | -102.7  | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | V       |         | d       | -111    | -100.7  | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I       | II      | II      | d       | -111    | -100.7  | Minimum |
| I-1-V-2 |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | V       |         | d       | -111    | -100.7  | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | II      | V       | d       | -111    | -100.7  | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | V       |         | d       | -111    | -100.7  | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-1-    | I       | I       | d       | -113    | -102.7  | Minimum |
| XXXII-2 |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
| I-2-    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| XXXII-1 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | XXXII   |         | d       | -113    | -102.7  | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| NOTE 1: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| For     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Power   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| class   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 3, 3bis |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and 4,  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| this    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| shall   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| be at   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| maximum |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| output  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| power   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.3.5.

### 6.2DA.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BLER of HS-PDSCH on each individual cell shall not
exceed 0,1 for the parameters specified in table 6.2DA.3 for the DL
reference channel H-Set 1C specified in Annex C.8.1.1.

The lack of the reception sensitivity decreases the HSDPA coverage area
at the far side from Node B.

This test case tests only 3 carrier configurations.

### 6.2DA.4 Method of test

##### 6.2DA.4.1 Initial conditions {#da.4.1-initial-conditions-1 .H6}

Test environment: normal, TL/VL, TL/VH, TH/VL, TH/VH; see clauses G.2.1
and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.48.

2\) Channel conditions are initially set up with received CPICH\_RSCP
\>-85 dBm. The relative power level of primary downlink physical
channels to Ior are set up according to clause E.5.0.

3\) Switch on the phone.

4\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure in
TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause7.3.16.

5\) The RF parameters are set up according to table 6.2DA.2 for each
individual cells.

See TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding loopback test.

##### 6.2DA.4.2 Procedure {#da.4.2-procedure-1 .H6}

1\) Set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE until
the UE output power shall be maximum level.

2\) Measure the BLER of HS-PDSCH on each individual cell received from
the UE at the SS.

### 6.2DA.5 Test requirements

The measured BLER, derived in step 2), shall not exceed 0,1 on each
individual cell. The minimum number of measurements required for a
statistically significant result to this test is clarified in annex
F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.0.

Table 6.2DA.2: Test parameters for reference sensitivity, additional
requirement for dual band 4C-HSDPA

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Dual    | DL Band | UL Band | Unit    | HS-PD   | \<REF   | **UL-DL |
| band    |         |         |         | SCH\_Ec | Î~or~\> | carrier |
| 4       |         |         |         | \<RE    |         | separ   |
| C-HSDPA |         |         |         | FSENS\> |         | ation** |
| config  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| uration |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-2     | I       | I       | d       | -112.3  | -102    | Minimum |
| -VIII-1 |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
| I-1     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| -VIII-2 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | VIII    |         | d       | -109.3  | -99     | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | I       | VIII    | d       | -112.3  | -102    | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | VIII    |         | d       | -109.3  | -99     | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| II      | II      | II      | d       | -109.3  | -99     | Minimum |
| -1-IV-2 |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
| II      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| -2-IV-1 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | d       | -111.3  | -101    | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | II      | IV      | d       | -109.3  | -99     | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | d       | -111.3  | -101    | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-1-V-2 | I       | I       | d       | -112.3  | -102    | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
| I-2-V-1 |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | V       |         | d       | -110.3  | -100    | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | I       | V       | d       | -112.3  | -102    | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | V       |         | d       | -110.3  | -100    | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I       | II      | II      | d       | -110.3  | -100    | Minimum |
| I-1-V-2 |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | V       |         | d       | -110.3  | -100    | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | II      | V       | d       | -110.3  | -100    | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | V       |         | d       | -110.3  | -100    | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-1-    | I       | I       | d       | -113    | -102    | Minimum |
| XXXII-2 |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
| I-2-    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| XXXII-1 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | XXXII   |         | d       | -113    | -102    | Minimum |
|         |         |         | Bm/3.84 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | MHz     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| NOTE 1  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| For     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Power   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| class   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 3, 3bis |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and 4,  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| this    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| shall   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| be at   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| maximum |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| output  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| power   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

6.3 Maximum Input Level
-----------------------

### 6.3.1 Definition and applicability

This is defined as the maximum mean power received at the UE antenna
port, which shall not degrade the specified BER performance.

The requirements and this test apply to all types of UTRA for the FDD
UE.

### 6.3.2 Minimum requirements

The BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the parameters specified in table
6.3.2.

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 7.4.1.

NOTE: Since the spreading factor is large (10log(SF)=21dB), the majority
of the total input signal consists of the OCNS interference. The
structure of OCNS signal is defined in clause E.3.3.

### 6.3.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BER shall not exceed 0,001 for the parameters
specified in table 6.3.3.

An inadequate maximum input level causes loss of coverage near the Node
B

### 6.3.4 Method of test

##### 6.3.4.1 Initial conditions {#initial-conditions-21 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.1.

2\) RF parameters are set up according to table 6.3.3 and table E.3.3.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure
specified in TS34.108\[3\] sub clause 7.3.2, with the following
exception for information elements in RADIO BEARER SETUP message. With
this exception, the Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to
algorithm 2.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

Table 6.3.1 Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM

  ---------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element          **Value/Remark**
  CHOICE channel requirement   Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm   Algorithm2
  ---------------------------- ------------------

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

Table 6.3.2: Test parameters for Maximum Input Level

+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Parameter                 | Level / Status                  | Unit          |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Îor                       | −25                             | dBm / 3,84MHz |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
|                           | −19                             | dB            |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| UE transmitted mean power | 20 (for Power class 3 and 3bis) | dBm           |
|                           |                                 |               |
|                           | 18 (for Power class 4)          |               |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+

##### 6.3.4.2 Procedure {#procedure-21 .H6}

1\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.3.3 or send the
power control commands (1dB step size should be used.) to the UE until
UE output power measured by Test System shall be kept at the specified
power level with ±1dB tolerance.

2\) Measure the BER of DCH received from the UE at the SS.

### 6.3.5 Test requirements

The measured BER, derived in step 1), shall not exceed 0,001.

Table 6.3.3: Test requirements for Maximum Input Level

+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Parameter                 | Level / Status                  | Unit          |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Îor                       | −25.7                           | dBm / 3,84MHz |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
|                           | −19                             | dB            |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| UE transmitted mean power | 20 (for Power class 3 and 3bis) | dBm           |
|                           |                                 |               |
|                           | 18 (for Power class 4)          |               |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

6.3A Maximum Input Level for HS-PDSCH Reception (16QAM)
-------------------------------------------------------

### 6.3A.1 Definition and applicability

Maximum input level for HS-PDSCH reception is defined as the maximum
power received at the UE antenna port, which shall not degrade the
specified HSDPA throughput performance. The requirements and this test
apply to all types of UTRA FDD UE that support HSDPA (16QAM).

### 6.3A.2 Minimum requirements

The requirements are specified in terms of a minimum information bit
throughput R for the DL reference channel H-Set 1 (16QAM version)
specified in Annex C.8.1.1 with the addition of the parameters in Table
6.3A.1 and the downlink physical channel setup according to table E.5.1.

Using this configuration the throughput shall meet or exceed the minimum
requirements specified in table 6.3A.2.

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 7.4.2.

Table 6.3A.1 Minimum requirement parameters for 16QAM Maximum Input
Level

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Value                    |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Phase reference          |              | P-CPICH                  |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~                    | dBm/3.84 MHz | -25 \*                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE transmitted mean      | dBm          | 20 (for Power class 3    |
| power                    |              | and 3bis)                |
|                          |              |                          |
|                          |              | 18 (for Power class 4)   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| DPCH\_Ec/Ior             | dB           | -13                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| HS-SCCH\_1\_Ec/Ior       | dB           | -13                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Redundancy and           |              | 6                        |
| constellation version    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Maximum number of HARQ   |              | 1                        |
| transmissions            |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE: The HS-SCCH and    |              |                          |
| corresponding HS-PDSCH   |              |                          |
| shall be transmitted     |              |                          |
| continuously with        |              |                          |
| constant power but the   |              |                          |
| HS-SCCH shall only use   |              |                          |
| the identity of the UE   |              |                          |
| under test every third   |              |                          |
| TTI.                     |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

Table 6.3A.2 Minimum throughput requirement

  --------------- --------------
  HS-PDSCH (dB)   T-put (kbps)
  **-3**          700
  --------------- --------------

### 6.3A.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE HSDPA throughput meets the minimum requirements
specified in table 6.3A.2 for the DL reference channel H-Set 1 specified
in Annex C.8.1.1 with the addition of the parameters specified in table
6.3A.4.

An inadequate maximum input level causes loss of coverage near the Node
B.

### 6.3A.4 Method of test

##### 6.3A.4.1 Initial conditions {#a.4.1-initial-conditions-15 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

RF parameters are given in tables 6.3A.4 and table E.5.1.

Table 6.3A.3 Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM

  ---------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element          **Value/Remark**
  CHOICE channel requirement   Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm   Algorithm2
  ---------------------------- ------------------

##### 6.3A.4.2 Procedure {#a.4.2-procedure-15 .H6}

Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.1.

1\) The UE is switched on.

2\) An RRC connection is set-up according to the generic HSDPA set-up
procedure with looping back 12.2kbps RMC specified in TS 34.108 \[3\]
clause 7.3.6. Additional radio bearer message definition is in table
6.3A.3

3\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.3A.4 and send
power control commands to the UE .The UE output power measured by Test
System shall be kept at the specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.

4\) Measure the HS-PDSCH throughput *R* received by the UE by counting
the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the UL HS-DPCCH (Throughput =
blocksize\*number of blocks acknowledged/time).

5\) The UE is switched off.

### 6.3A.5 Test requirements

The measured throughput, as derived in step 4), shall meet or exceed
700Kbit/second. The minimum number of measurements required for a
statistically significant result to this test is clarified in annex
F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.1.

Table 6.3A.4: Test requirement parameters for 16QAM Maximum Input Level

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Value                    |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Phase reference          |              | P-CPICH                  |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~                    | dBm/3.84 MHz | -25.7                    |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE transmitted mean      | dBm          | 20 (for Power class 3    |
| power                    |              | and 3bis)                |
|                          |              |                          |
|                          |              | 18 (for Power class 4)   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| DPCH\_Ec/Ior             | dB           | -13                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| HS-SCCH\_1\_Ec/Ior       | dB           | -13                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Redundancy and           |              | 6                        |
| constellation version    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Maximum number of HARQ   |              | 1                        |
| transmissions            |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE: The HS-SCCH and    |              |                          |
| corresponding HS-DSCH    |              |                          |
| shall be transmitted     |              |                          |
| continuously with        |              |                          |
| constant power but the   |              |                          |
| HS-SCCH shall only use   |              |                          |
| the identity of the UE   |              |                          |
| under test every third   |              |                          |
| TTI.                     |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

6.3B Maximum Input Level for HS-PDSCH Reception (64QAM)
-------------------------------------------------------

### 6.3B.1 Definition and applicability

Maximum input level for HS-PDSCH reception is defined as the maximum
power received at the UE antenna port, which shall not degrade the
specified HSDPA throughput performance. The requirements and this test
apply for Release 7 and later releases to all types of UTRA FDD UE that
support HSDPA (64QAM).

### 6.3B.2 Minimum requirements

The requirements are specified in terms of a minimum information bit
throughput R for the DL reference channel H-Set 8 (64QAM version)
specified in Annex C.8.1.8 with the addition of the parameters in Table
6.3B.1 and the downlink physical channel setup according to table
E.5.1A.

Using this configuration the throughput shall meet or exceed the minimum
requirements specified in table 6.3B.2.

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 7.4.2.

Table 6.3B.1 Minimum requirement parameters for 64QAM Maximum Input
Level

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------
  Parameter                                                                                                                                                                              Unit           Value
  Phase reference                                                                                                                                                                                       P-CPICH
  Î~or~                                                                                                                                                                                  dBm/3.84 MHz   -25
  UE transmitted mean power                                                                                                                                                              dBm            0
  DPCH\_Ec/Ior                                                                                                                                                                           dB             -13
  HS-SCCH\_1\_Ec/Ior                                                                                                                                                                     dB             -13
  Redundancy and constellation version                                                                                                                                                                  6
  Maximum number of HARQ transmissions                                                                                                                                                                  1
  NOTE: The HS-SCCH and corresponding HS-PDSCH shall be transmitted continuously with constant power but the HS-SCCH shall only use the identity of the UE under test every third TTI.                  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------

Table 6.3B.2 Minimum throughput requirement

  ----------- --------------
  HS-PDSCH\   T-put (kbps)
  (dB)        

  **-2**      11800
  ----------- --------------

### 6.3B.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE HSDPA throughput meets the minimum requirements
specified in table 6.3B.2 for the DL reference channel H-Set 8 specified
in Annex C.8.1.8 with the addition of the parameters specified in table
6.3B.4.

An inadequate maximum input level causes loss of coverage near the Node
B.

### 6.3B.4 Method of test

##### 6.3B.4.1 Initial conditions {#b.4.1-initial-conditions-11 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

RF parameters are given in tables 6.3B.4 and table E.5.1A.

##### Contents of RRC CONNECTION SETUP message: UM (Transition to CELL\_DCH) {#contents-of-rrc-connection-setup-message-um-transition-to-cell_dch .H6}

Table 6.3B.3 Specific Message Contents for 64QAM Maximum Input Level

  ----------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------
  Information Element                             Value/remark   Version
  Downlink information for per radio links list                  
  \- Downlink information for each radio links                   
  \- Downlink DPCH info for each RL                              
  \- DL channelisation code                                      
  \- Code number                                  14             
  ----------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-test-loop-mode1 .H6}

  --------------------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                           **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                                 Rel-6
  \- Power Control Algorithm                    Algorithm2         
  Downlink information per radio link list                         
  \- Downlink information for each radio link                      
  \- Downlink DPCH info for each RL                                
  \- DL channelisation code                                        
  \- Code number                                7                  
  --------------------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (HSDPA) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-hsdpa .H6}

  --------------------------------------------------- --------------- ---------
  Information Element                                 Value/remark    Version
  RAB information for setup list                                      
  \- RAB information for setup                                        
  \- RB mapping info                                                  
  \- Downlink RLC logical channel info                                
  \- Downlink transport channel type                  HS-DSCH         
  \- CHOICE DL MAC header type                        MAC-ehs         Rel-7
  \- DL HS-DSCH MAC-ehs Queue Id                      0               Rel-7
  \- Logical channel identity                         1               
  Added or Reconfigured DL TrCH information list      1 TrCHs added   
  \- Added or Reconfigured DL TrCH information                        
  \- CHOICE DL parameters                             HS-DSCH         
  \- CHOICE DL MAC header type                        MAC-ehs         Rel-7
  \- Added or reconfigured MAC-ehs reordering queue                   Rel-7
  \- MAC-ehs queue to add or reconfigure list         (one queue)     Rel-7
  \- MAC-ehs queue Id                                 0               Rel-7
  \- T1                                               50              Rel-7
  \- Treset                                           Not Present     Rel-7
  \- MAC-ehs window size                              16              Rel-7
  Uplink DPCH info                                                    Rel-6
  \- Power Control Algorithm                          Algorithm2      
  Downlink HS-PDSCH Information                                       
  \- HS-SCCH Info                                                     
  \- CHOICE mode                                      FDD             
  \- DL Scrambling Code                                               
  \- HS-SCCH Channelisation Code Information                          
  \- HS-SCCH Channelisation Code                      2               
  \- HS-SCCH Channelisation Code                      3               
  \- CHOICE mode                                      FDD             
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured                        TRUE            Rel-7
  Downlink information per radio link list                            
  \- Downlink information for each radio link                         
  \- Downlink DPCH info for each RL                                   
  \- DL channelisation code                                           
  \- Code number                                      7               
  --------------------------------------------------- --------------- ---------

##### 6.3B.4.2 Procedure {#b.4.2-procedure-11 .H6}

Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.1.

1\) The UE is switched on.

2\) An RRC connection is set-up according to the generic HSDPA set-up
procedure with looping back 12.2kbps RMC specified in TS 34.108 \[3\]
clause 7.3.6, with the exceptions for information elements listed in
table 6.3B.3

3\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.3B.4 and send
power control commands to the UE .The UE output power measured by Test
System shall be kept at the specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.

4\) Measure the HS-PDSCH throughput *R* received by the UE by counting
the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the UL HS-DPCCH (Throughput =
blocksize\*number of blocks acknowledged/time).

5\) The UE is switched off.

### 6.3B.5 Test requirements

The measured throughput, as derived in step 4), shall meet or exceed
11800Kbit/second. The minimum number of measurements required for a
statistically significant result to this test is clarified in annex
F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.1A.

Table 6.3B.4: Test requirement parameters for 64QAM Maximum Input Level

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------
  Parameter                                                                                                                                                                             Unit           Value
  Phase reference                                                                                                                                                                                      P-CPICH
  Î~or~                                                                                                                                                                                 dBm/3.84 MHz   -25.7
  UE transmitted mean power                                                                                                                                                             dBm            0
  DPCH\_Ec/Ior                                                                                                                                                                          dB             -13
  HS-SCCH\_1\_Ec/Ior                                                                                                                                                                    dB             -13
  Redundancy and constellation version                                                                                                                                                                 6
  Maximum number of HARQ transmissions                                                                                                                                                                 1
  NOTE: The HS-SCCH and corresponding HS-PDSCH shall be transmitted continuously with constant power but the HS-SCCH shall only use the identity of the UE under test every third TTI                  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

6.3C Maximum Input Level for DC-HSDPA Reception (16QAM)
-------------------------------------------------------

### 6.3C.1 Definition and applicability

Maximum input level for DC-HSDPA reception is defined as the maximum
power received at the UE antenna port, which shall not degrade the
specified DC-HSDPA throughput performance.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 8 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support DC-HSDPA with 16QAM.

### 6.3C.2 Minimum requirements

The additional DC-HSDPA requirements are specified in terms of a minimum
information throughput per cell R with the DL reference channel H-Set 1
(16QAM version) specified in Annex C.8.1.1, with the addition of the
parameters in Table 6.3C.1, and the downlink physical channel setup
according to table E.5.1, applied to both cells simultaneously. Using
this configuration the throughput shall meet or exceed the minimum
requirements specified in table 6.3C.2.

Table 6.3C.1 Minimum requirement parameters for 16QAM Maximum Input
Level (DC-HSDPA)

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Value                    |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Phase reference          |              | P-CPICH                  |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~                    | dBm/3.84 MHz | -25 \*                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE transmitted mean      | dBm          | 20 (for Power class 3    |
| power                    |              | and 3bis)                |
|                          |              |                          |
|                          |              | 18 (for Power class 4)   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| DPCH\_Ec/Ior             | dB           | -13                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| HS-SCCH\_1\_Ec/Ior       | dB           | -13                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Redundancy and           |              | 6                        |
| constellation version    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Maximum number of HARQ   |              | 1                        |
| transmissions            |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE: The HS-SCCH and    |              |                          |
| corresponding HS-PDSCH   |              |                          |
| shall be transmitted     |              |                          |
| continuously with        |              |                          |
| constant power but the   |              |                          |
| HS-SCCH shall only use   |              |                          |
| the identity of the UE   |              |                          |
| under test every third   |              |                          |
| TTI.                     |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

Table 6.3C.2 Minimum throughput requirement (DC-HSDPA)

  --------------- --------------
  HS-PDSCH (dB)   T-put (kbps)
  **-3**          700
  --------------- --------------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 7.4.3.1

### 6.3C.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE DC-HSDPA throughput meets the minimum requirements
specified in table 6.3C.2 for the DL reference channel H-Set 1 specified
in Annex C.8.1.1 with the addition of the parameters specified in table
6.3C.4.

An inadequate maximum input level causes loss of DC-HSDPA coverage near
the Node B.

### 6.3C.4 Method of test

##### 6.3C.4.1 Initial conditions {#c.4.1-initial-conditions-11 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

RF parameters are given in tables 6.3C.4 and table E.5.1.

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-test-loop-mode1-1 .H6}

Table 6.3C.3: Specific Message Contents for 16QAM Maximum Input Level
(DC-HSDPA)

  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                       Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2         
  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (DC-HSDPA) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-dc-hsdpa-2 .H6}

  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                       Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2         
  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

##### 6.3C.4.2 Procedure {#c.4.2-procedure-11 .H6}

Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.30.

1\) The UE is switched on.

2\) An RRC connection is set-up according to the generic HSDPA set-up
procedure specified in TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.13 with exceptions for
information elements listed in table 6.3C.3

3\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.3C.4 and send
power control commands to the UE .The UE output power measured by Test
System shall be kept at the specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.

4\) Measure the HS-PDSCH throughput *R* received by the UE on each
individual cell by counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the
UL HS-DPCCH (Throughput = blocksize\*number of blocks
acknowledged/time).

5\) The UE is switched off.

### 6.3C.5 Test requirements

The measured throughput, as derived in step 4), shall meet or exceed
700Kbit/second on each individual cell. The minimum number of
measurements required for a statistically significant result to this
test is clarified in annex F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.1.

Table 6.3C.4: Test requirement parameters for 16QAM Maximum Input Level
(DC-HSDPA)

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Value                    |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Phase reference          |              | P-CPICH                  |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~                    | dBm/3.84 MHz | -25.7                    |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE transmitted mean      | dBm          | 20 (for Power class 3    |
| power                    |              | and 3bis)                |
|                          |              |                          |
|                          |              | 18 (for Power class 4)   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| DPCH\_Ec/Ior             | dB           | -13                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| HS-SCCH\_1\_Ec/Ior       | dB           | -13                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Redundancy and           |              | 6                        |
| constellation version    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Maximum number of HARQ   |              | 1                        |
| transmissions            |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE: The HS-SCCH and    |              |                          |
| corresponding HS-DSCH    |              |                          |
| shall be transmitted     |              |                          |
| continuously with        |              |                          |
| constant power but the   |              |                          |
| HS-SCCH shall only use   |              |                          |
| the identity of the UE   |              |                          |
| under test every third   |              |                          |
| TTI.                     |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

6.3D Maximum Input Level for DC-HSDPA Reception (64QAM)
-------------------------------------------------------

### 6.3D.1 Definition and applicability

Maximum input level for DC-HSDPA reception is defined as the maximum
power received at the UE antenna port, which shall not degrade the
specified DC-HSDPA throughput performance.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 8 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support DC-HSDPA with 64QAM.

### 6.3D.2 Minimum requirements

The additional DC-HSDPA requirements are specified in terms of a minimum
information throughput per cell R with the DL reference channel H-Set 8A
specified in Annex C.8.1.8, with the addition of the parameters in Table
6.3D.1, and the downlink physical channel setup according to table
E.5.1, applied to both cells simultaneously. Using this configuration
the throughput shall meet or exceed the minimum requirements specified
in table 6.3D.2.

Table 6.3D.1: Minimum requirement parameters for 64QAM Maximum Input
Level (DC-HSDPA)

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------
  Parameter                                                                                                                                                                              Unit           Value
  Phase reference                                                                                                                                                                                       P-CPICH
  Î~or~                                                                                                                                                                                  dBm/3.84 MHz   -25 \*
  UE transmitted mean power                                                                                                                                                              dBm            0
  DPCH\_Ec/Ior                                                                                                                                                                           dB             -13
  HS-SCCH\_1\_Ec/Ior                                                                                                                                                                     dB             -13
  Redundancy and constellation version                                                                                                                                                                  6
  Maximum number of HARQ transmissions                                                                                                                                                                  1
  NOTE: The HS-SCCH and corresponding HS-PDSCH shall be transmitted continuously with constant power but the HS-SCCH shall only use the identity of the UE under test every third TTI.                  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------

Table 6.3D.2: Minimum throughput requirement (DC-HSDPA)

  --------------- --------------
  HS-PDSCH (dB)   T-put (kbps)
  **-2**          11800
  --------------- --------------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 7.4.3.2.

### 6.3D.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE DC-HSDPA throughput meets the minimum requirements
specified in table 6.3D.2 for the DL reference channel H-Set 8A
specified in Annex C.8.1.8 with the addition of the parameters specified
in table 6.3D.4.

An inadequate maximum input level causes loss of DC-HSDPA coverage near
the Node B.

### 6.3D.4 Method of test

##### 6.3D.4.1 Initial conditions {#d.4.1-initial-conditions-9 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

RF parameters are given in tables 6.3D.4 and table E.5.1.

##### Contents of RRC CONNECTION SETUP message: UM (Transition to CELL\_DCH) {#contents-of-rrc-connection-setup-message-um-transition-to-cell_dch-1 .H6}

Table 6.3D.3: Specific Message Contents for 64QAM Maximum Input Level
(DC-HSDPA)

  ----------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------
  Information Element                             Value/remark   Version
  Downlink information for per radio links list                  
  -Downlink information for each radio links                     
  \- Downlink DPCH info for each RL                              
  \- DL channelisation code                                      
  \- Code number                                  14             
  ----------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-test-loop-mode1-2 .H6}

  --------------------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                           **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                                 Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                                
  \- CHOICE mode                                FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm                    Algorithm2         
  Downlink information per radio link list                         
  \- Downlink information for each radio link                      
  \- Downlink DPCH info for each RL                                
  \- DL channelisation code                                        
  \- Code number                                7                  
  --------------------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (DC-HSDPA) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-dc-hsdpa-3 .H6}

  --------------------------------------------- --------------------- ---------
  Information Element                           Value/remark          Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                                    Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                                   
  \- CHOICE mode                                FDD                   
  \- Power Control Algorithm                    Algorithm2            
  Downlink HS-PDSCH Information                                       
  \- CHOICE mode                                FDD                   
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured                  TRUE (for H-Set 8A)   Rel-7
  \- HS-DSCH TB size table                      Not Present           Rel-7
  Downlink information per radio link list                            
  \- Downlink information for each radio link                         
  \- Downlink DPCH info for each RL                                   
  \- DL channelisation code                                           
  \- Code number                                7                     
  Downlink secondary cell info FDD                                    Rel-8
  \- CHOICE Configuration info                  New configuration     
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured                  TRUE (for H-Set 8A)   
  \- HS-DSCH TB size table                      Not Present           
  --------------------------------------------- --------------------- ---------

##### 6.3D.4.2 Procedure {#d.4.2-procedure-9 .H6}

Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.30.

1\) The UE is switched on.

2\) An RRC connection is set-up according to the generic HSDPA set-up
procedure specified in TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.13with exceptions for
information elements listed in table 6.3D.3

3\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.3D.4 and send
power control commands to the UE .The UE output power measured by Test
System shall be kept at the specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.

4\) Measure the HS-PDSCH throughput *R* received by the UE on each
individual cell by counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the
UL HS-DPCCH (Throughput = blocksize\*number of blocks
acknowledged/time).

5\) The UE is switched off.

### 6.3D.5 Test requirements

The measured throughput, as derived in step 4), shall meet or exceed
11800 Kbit/second on each individual cell. The minimum number of
measurements required for a statistically significant result to this
test is clarified in annex F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.1A.

Table 6.3D.4: Test requirement parameters for 64QAM Maximum Input Level
(DC-HSDPA)

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------
  Parameter                                                                                                                                                                             Unit           Value
  Phase reference                                                                                                                                                                                      P-CPICH
  Î~or~                                                                                                                                                                                 dBm/3.84 MHz   -25.7
  UE transmitted mean power                                                                                                                                                             dBm            0
  DPCH\_Ec/Ior                                                                                                                                                                          dB             -13
  HS-SCCH\_1\_Ec/Ior                                                                                                                                                                    dB             -13
  Redundancy and constellation version                                                                                                                                                                 6
  Maximum number of HARQ transmissions                                                                                                                                                                 1
  NOTE: The HS-SCCH and corresponding HS-DSCH shall be transmitted continuously with constant power but the HS-SCCH shall only use the identity of the UE under test every third TTI.                  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

6.3E Maximum Input Level for DB-DC-HSDPA Reception (16QAM)
----------------------------------------------------------

### 6.3E.1 Definition and applicability

Maximum input level for DB-DC-HSDPA reception is defined as the maximum
power received at the UE antenna port, which shall not degrade the
specified DB-DC-HSDPA throughput performance.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 9 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support DB-DC-HSDPA with 16QAM.

DB-DC-HSDPA is designed to operate in configurations specified in clause
4.2.

### 6.3E.2 Minimum requirements

The additional DB-DC-HSDPA requirements are specified in terms of a
minimum information throughput per cell R with the DL reference channel
H-Set 1 (16QAM version) specified in Annex C.8.1.1, with the addition of
the parameters in Table 6.3E.1, and the downlink physical channel setup
according to table E.5.1, applied to both cells simultaneously. Using
this configuration the throughput shall meet or exceed the minimum
requirements specified in table 6.3E.2.

Table 6.3E.1: Minimum requirement parameters for 16QAM Maximum Input
Level (DB-DC-HSDPA)

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Value                    |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Phase reference          |              | P-CPICH                  |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~                    | dBm/3.84 MHz | -25                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE transmitted mean      | dBm          | 20 (for Power class 3    |
| power                    |              | and 3bis)                |
|                          |              |                          |
|                          |              | 18 (for Power class 4)   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| DPCH\_Ec/Ior             | dB           | -13                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| HS-SCCH\_1\_Ec/Ior       | dB           | -13                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Redundancy and           |              | 6                        |
| constellation version    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Maximum number of HARQ   |              | 1                        |
| transmissions            |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE: The HS-SCCH and    |              |                          |
| corresponding HS-PDSCH   |              |                          |
| shall be transmitted     |              |                          |
| continuously with        |              |                          |
| constant power but the   |              |                          |
| HS-SCCH shall only use   |              |                          |
| the identity of the UE   |              |                          |
| under test every third   |              |                          |
| TTI.                     |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

Table 6.3E.2: Minimum throughput requirement (DB-DC-HSDPA)

  --------------- --------------
  HS-PDSCH (dB)   T-put (kbps)
  **-3**          700
  --------------- --------------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 7.4.3.1

### 6.3E.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE DB-DC-HSDPA throughput meets the minimum
requirements specified in table 6.3E.2 for the DL reference channel
H-Set 1 specified in Annex C.8.1.1 with the addition of the parameters
specified in table 6.3E.4.

An inadequate maximum input level causes loss of DB-DC-HSDPA coverage
near the Node B.

### 6.3E.4 Method of test

##### 6.3E.4.1 Initial conditions {#e.4.1-initial-conditions-1 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

RF parameters are given in tables 6.3E.4 and table E.5.1.

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-test-loop-mode1-3 .H6}

Table 6.3E.3: Specific Message Contents for 16QAM Maximum Input Level
(DC-HSDPA)

  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                       Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2         
  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (DC-HSDPA) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-dc-hsdpa-4 .H6}

  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                       Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2         
  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

##### 6.3E.4.2 Procedure {#e.4.2-procedure-1 .H6}

Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.30.

1\) The UE is switched on.

2\) An RRC connection is set-up according to the generic HSDPA set-up
procedure specified in TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.13 with exceptions for
information elements listed in table 6.3E.3

3\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.3E.4 and send
power control commands to the UE .The UE output power measured by Test
System shall be kept at the specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.

4\) Measure the HS-PDSCH throughput *R* received by the UE on each
individual cell by counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the
UL HS-DPCCH (Throughput = blocksize\*number of blocks
acknowledged/time).

5\) The UE is switched off.

### 6.3E.5 Test requirements

The measured throughput, as derived in step 4), shall meet or exceed
700Kbit/second on each individual cell. The minimum number of
measurements required for a statistically significant result to this
test is clarified in annex F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.1.

Table 6.3E.4: Test requirement parameters for 16QAM Maximum Input Level
(DB-DC-HSDPA)

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Value                    |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Phase reference          |              | P-CPICH                  |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Î~or~                    | dBm/3.84 MHz | -25.7                    |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE transmitted mean      | dBm          | 20 (for Power class 3    |
| power                    |              | and 3bis)                |
|                          |              |                          |
|                          |              | 18 (for Power class 4)   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| DPCH\_Ec/Ior             | dB           | -13                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| HS-SCCH\_1\_Ec/Ior       | dB           | -13                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Redundancy and           |              | 6                        |
| constellation version    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Maximum number of HARQ   |              | 1                        |
| transmissions            |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE: The HS-SCCH and    |              |                          |
| corresponding HS-DSCH    |              |                          |
| shall be transmitted     |              |                          |
| continuously with        |              |                          |
| constant power but the   |              |                          |
| HS-SCCH shall only use   |              |                          |
| the identity of the UE   |              |                          |
| under test every third   |              |                          |
| TTI.                     |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

6.3F Maximum Input Level for DB-DC-HSDPA Reception (64QAM)
----------------------------------------------------------

### 6.3F.1 Definition and applicability

Maximum input level for DB-DC-HSDPA reception is defined as the maximum
power received at the UE antenna port, which shall not degrade the
specified DB-DC-HSDPA throughput performance.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 9 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support DB-DC-HSDPA with 64QAM.

DB-DC-HSDPA is designed to operate in configurations, specified in
clause 4.2

### 6.3F.2 Minimum requirements

The additional DB-DC-HSDPA requirements are specified in terms of a
minimum information throughput per cell R with the DL reference channel
H-Set 8A specified in Annex C.8.1.8, with the addition of the parameters
in Table 6.3F.1, and the downlink physical channel setup according to
table E.5.1, applied to both cells simultaneously. Using this
configuration the throughput shall meet or exceed the minimum
requirements specified in table 6.3F.2.

Table 6.3F.1: Minimum requirement parameters for 64QAM Maximum Input
Level (DB-DC-HSDPA)

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------
  Parameter                                                                                                                                                                              Unit           Value
  Phase reference                                                                                                                                                                                       P-CPICH
  Î~or~                                                                                                                                                                                  dBm/3.84 MHz   -25
  UE transmitted mean power                                                                                                                                                              dBm            0
  DPCH\_Ec/Ior                                                                                                                                                                           dB             -13
  HS-SCCH\_1\_Ec/Ior                                                                                                                                                                     dB             -13
  Redundancy and constellation version                                                                                                                                                                  6
  Maximum number of HARQ transmissions                                                                                                                                                                  1
  NOTE: The HS-SCCH and corresponding HS-PDSCH shall be transmitted continuously with constant power but the HS-SCCH shall only use the identity of the UE under test every third TTI.                  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------

Table 6.3F.2: Minimum throughput requirement (DB-DC-HSDPA)

  --------------- --------------
  HS-PDSCH (dB)   T-put (kbps)
  **-2**          11800
  --------------- --------------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 7.4.3.2.

### 6.3F.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE DB-DC-HSDPA throughput meets the minimum
requirements specified in table 6.3F.2 for the DL reference channel
H-Set 8A specified in Annex C.8.1.8 with the addition of the parameters
specified in table 6.3F.4.

An inadequate maximum input level causes loss of DB-DC-HSDPA coverage
near the Node B.

### 6.3F.4 Method of test

##### 6.3F.4.1 Initial conditions {#f.4.1-initial-conditions .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

RF parameters are given in tables 6.3F.4 and table E.5.1.

##### Contents of RRC CONNECTION SETUP message: UM (Transition to CELL\_DCH) {#contents-of-rrc-connection-setup-message-um-transition-to-cell_dch-2 .H6}

Table 6.3F.3: Specific Message Contents for 64QAM Maximum Input Level
(DB-DC-HSDPA)

  ----------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------
  Information Element                             Value/remark   Version
  Downlink information for per radio links list                  
  -Downlink information for each radio links                     
  \- Downlink DPCH info for each RL                              
  \- DL channelisation code                                      
  \- Code number                                  14             
  ----------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-test-loop-mode1-4 .H6}

  --------------------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                           **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                                 Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                                
  \- CHOICE mode                                FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm                    Algorithm2         
  Downlink information per radio link list                         
  \- Downlink information for each radio link                      
  \- Downlink DPCH info for each RL                                
  \- DL channelisation code                                        
  \- Code number                                7                  
  --------------------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (DC-HSDPA) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-dc-hsdpa-5 .H6}

  --------------------------------------------- --------------------- ---------
  Information Element                           Value/remark          Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                                    Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                                   
  \- CHOICE mode                                FDD                   
  \- Power Control Algorithm                    Algorithm2            
  Downlink HS-PDSCH Information                                       
  \- CHOICE mode                                FDD                   
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured                  TRUE (for H-Set 8A)   Rel-7
  \- HS-DSCH TB size table                      Not Present           Rel-7
  Downlink information per radio link list                            
  \- Downlink information for each radio link                         
  \- Downlink DPCH info for each RL                                   
  \- DL channelisation code                                           
  \- Code number                                7                     
  Downlink secondary cell info FDD                                    Rel-8
  \- CHOICE Configuration info                  New configuration     
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured                  TRUE (for H-Set 8A)   
  \- HS-DSCH TB size table                      Not Present           
  --------------------------------------------- --------------------- ---------

##### 6.3F.4.2 Procedure {#f.4.2-procedure .H6}

Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.30.

1\) The UE is switched on.

2\) An RRC connection is set-up according to the generic HSDPA set-up
procedure specified in TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.13 with exceptions for
information elements listed in table 6.3F.3

3\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.3F.4 and send
power control commands to the UE .The UE output power measured by Test
System shall be kept at the specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.

4\) Measure the HS-PDSCH throughput *R* received by the UE on each
individual cell by counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the
UL HS-DPCCH (Throughput = blocksize\*number of blocks
acknowledged/time).

5\) The UE is switched off.

### 6.3F.5 Test requirements

The measured throughput, as derived in step 4), shall meet or exceed
11800 Kbit/second on each individual cell. The minimum number of
measurements required for a statistically significant result to this
test is clarified in annex F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.1A.

Table 6.3F.4: Test requirement parameters for 64QAM Maximum Input Level
(DB-DC-HSDPA)

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------
  Parameter                                                                                                                                                                             Unit           Value
  Phase reference                                                                                                                                                                                      P-CPICH
  Î~or~                                                                                                                                                                                 dBm/3.84 MHz   -25.7
  UE transmitted mean power                                                                                                                                                             dBm            0
  DPCH\_Ec/Ior                                                                                                                                                                          dB             -13
  HS-SCCH\_1\_Ec/Ior                                                                                                                                                                    dB             -13
  Redundancy and constellation version                                                                                                                                                                 6
  Maximum number of HARQ transmissions                                                                                                                                                                 1
  NOTE: The HS-SCCH and corresponding HS-DSCH shall be transmitted continuously with constant power but the HS-SCCH shall only use the identity of the UE under test every third TTI.                  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

6.3G Maximum Input Level for 4C-HSDPA Reception (16QAM)
-------------------------------------------------------

### 6.3G.1 Definition and applicability

Maximum input level for 4C-HSDPA reception is defined as the maximum
power received at the UE antenna port, which shall not degrade the
specified 4C-HSDPA throughput performance.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 10 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support Single band/Dual band
4C-HSDPA with 16QAM and HS-DSCH categories 31 or 32.

Single band/Dual band 4C-HSDPA is designed to operate in configurations
specified in clause 4.2.

### 6.3G.2 Minimum requirements

The additional 4C-HSDPA requirements are specified in terms of a minimum
information throughput per cell R with the DL reference channel H-Set 1C
(16QAM version) specified in Annex C.8.1.1, with the addition of the
parameters in Table 6.3G.1, and the downlink physical channel setup
according to table E.5.1, applied to all the cells simultaneously. Using
this configuration the throughput shall meet or exceed the minimum
requirements specified in table 6.3G.2.

Table 6.3G.1: Minimum requirement parameters for 16QAM Maximum Input
Level (4C-HSDPA)

+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| Parameter                  | Unit     | Value                      |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| Phase reference            |          | P-CPICH                    |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| Wanted signal mean power   | dBm/band | -22                        |
| per band (dBm)             |          |                            |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| UE transmitted mean power  | dBm      | 20 (for Power class 3 and  |
|                            |          | 3bis)                      |
|                            |          |                            |
|                            |          | 18 (for Power class 4)     |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| DPCH\_Ec/Ior               | dB       | -13                        |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| HS-SCCH\_1\_Ec/Ior         | dB       | -13                        |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| Redundancy and             |          | 6                          |
| constellation version      |          |                            |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| Maximum number of HARQ     |          | 1                          |
| transmissions              |          |                            |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| Note 1: The HS-SCCH and    |          |                            |
| corresponding HS-PDSCH     |          |                            |
| shall be transmitted       |          |                            |
| continuously with constant |          |                            |
| power but the HS-SCCH      |          |                            |
| shall only use the         |          |                            |
| identity of the UE under   |          |                            |
| test every third TTI       |          |                            |
|                            |          |                            |
| Note 2: Wanted signal mean |          |                            |
| power per band is the sum  |          |                            |
| of measured mean power on  |          |                            |
| each carrier in a band     |          |                            |
| over 3.84 MHz.             |          |                            |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+

Table 6.3G.2: Minimum throughput requirement (4C-HSDPA)

  --------------- --------------
  HS-PDSCH (dB)   T-put (kbps)
  **-3**          700
  --------------- --------------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 7.4.4.1

### 6.3G.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE DC-HSDPA throughput meets the minimum requirements
specified in table 6.3G.2 for the DL reference channel H-Set 1C
specified in Annex C.8.1.1 with the addition of the parameters specified
in table 6.3G.4.

An inadequate maximum input level causes loss of 4C-HSDPA coverage near
the Node B.

This test case tests only 4 carrier configurations.

### 6.3G.4 Method of test

##### 6.3G.4.1 Initial conditions {#g.4.1-initial-conditions .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

RF parameters are given in tables 6.3G.4 and table E.5.1.

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-test-loop-mode1-5 .H6}

Table 6.3G.3: Specific Message Contents for 16QAM Maximum Input Level
(4C-HSDPA)

  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                       Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2         
  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

##### 6.3G.4.2 Procedure {#g.4.2-procedure .H6}

Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.48.

1\) The UE is switched on.

2\) An RRC connection is set-up according to the generic HSDPA set-up
procedure specified in TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.16 with exceptions for
information elements listed in table 6.3G.3

3\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.3G.4 and send
power control commands to the UE .The UE output power measured by Test
System shall be kept at the specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.

4\) Measure the HS-PDSCH throughput *R* received by the UE on each
individual cell by counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the
UL HS-DPCCH (Throughput = blocksize\*number of blocks
acknowledged/time).

5\) The UE is switched off.

### 6.3G.5 Test requirements

The measured throughput, as derived in step 4), shall meet or exceed
700Kbit/second on each individual cell. The minimum number of
measurements required for a statistically significant result to this
test is clarified in annex F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.1.

Table 6.3G.4: Test requirement parameters for 16QAM Maximum Input Level
(4C-HSDPA)

+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| Parameter                  | Unit     | Value                      |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| Phase reference            |          | P-CPICH                    |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| Wanted signal mean power   | dBm/band | -22.7                      |
| per band (dBm)             |          |                            |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| UE transmitted mean power  | dBm      | 20 (for Power class 3 and  |
|                            |          | 3bis)                      |
|                            |          |                            |
|                            |          | 18 (for Power class 4)     |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| DPCH\_Ec/Ior               | dB       | -13                        |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| HS-SCCH\_1\_Ec/Ior         | dB       | -13                        |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| Redundancy and             |          | 6                          |
| constellation version      |          |                            |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| Maximum number of HARQ     |          | 1                          |
| transmissions              |          |                            |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| Note 1: The HS-SCCH and    |          |                            |
| corresponding HS-PDSCH     |          |                            |
| shall be transmitted       |          |                            |
| continuously with constant |          |                            |
| power but the HS-SCCH      |          |                            |
| shall only use the         |          |                            |
| identity of the UE under   |          |                            |
| test every third TTI.      |          |                            |
|                            |          |                            |
| Note 2: Wanted signal mean |          |                            |
| power per band is the sum  |          |                            |
| of measured mean power on  |          |                            |
| each carrier in a band     |          |                            |
| over 3.84 MHz.             |          |                            |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

6.3GA Maximum Input Level for 4C-HSDPA Reception (16QAM) (3 carrier)
--------------------------------------------------------------------

### 6.3GA.1 Definition and applicability

Maximum input level for 4C-HSDPA reception is defined as the maximum
power received at the UE antenna port, which shall not degrade the
specified 4C-HSDPA throughput performance.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 10 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support Single band/Dual band
4C-HSDPA with 16QAM and HS-DSCH UE categories 29 to 32.

Single band/Dual band 4C-HSDPA is designed to operate in configurations
specified in clause 4.2.

### 6.3GA.2 Minimum requirements

The additional 4C-HSDPA requirements are specified in terms of a minimum
information throughput per cell R with the DL reference channel H-Set 1B
(16QAM version) specified in Annex C.8.1.1, with the addition of the
parameters in Table 6.3GA.1, and the downlink physical channel setup
according to table E.5.1, applied to all the cells simultaneously. Using
this configuration the throughput shall meet or exceed the minimum
requirements specified in table 6.3GA.2.

Table 6.3GA.1 Minimum requirement parameters for 16QAM Maximum Input
Level (4C-HSDPA)

+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| Parameter                  | Unit     | Value                      |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| Phase reference            |          | P-CPICH                    |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| Wanted signal mean power   | dBm/band | -22                        |
| per band (dBm)             |          |                            |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| UE transmitted mean power  | dBm      | 20 (for Power class 3 and  |
|                            |          | 3bis)                      |
|                            |          |                            |
|                            |          | 18 (for Power class 4)     |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| DPCH\_Ec/Ior               | dB       | -13                        |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| HS-SCCH\_1\_Ec/Ior         | dB       | -13                        |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| Redundancy and             |          | 6                          |
| constellation version      |          |                            |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| Maximum number of HARQ     |          | 1                          |
| transmissions              |          |                            |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| Note 1: The HS-SCCH and    |          |                            |
| corresponding HS-PDSCH     |          |                            |
| shall be transmitted       |          |                            |
| continuously with constant |          |                            |
| power but the HS-SCCH      |          |                            |
| shall only use the         |          |                            |
| identity of the UE under   |          |                            |
| test every third TTI       |          |                            |
|                            |          |                            |
| Note 2: Wanted signal mean |          |                            |
| power per band is the sum  |          |                            |
| of measured mean power on  |          |                            |
| each carrier in a band     |          |                            |
| over 3.84 MHz.             |          |                            |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+

Table 6.3GA.2: Minimum throughput requirement (4C-HSDPA)

  --------------- --------------
  HS-PDSCH (dB)   T-put (kbps)
  **-3**          700
  --------------- --------------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 7.4.4.1

### 6.3GA.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE 4C-HSDPA throughput meets the minimum requirements
specified in table 6.3GA.2 for the DL reference channel H-Set 1B
specified in Annex C.8.1.1 with the addition of the parameters specified
in table 6.3GA.4.

An inadequate maximum input level causes loss of 4C-HSDPA coverage near
the Node B.

This test case tests only 3 carrier configurations.

### 6.3GA.4 Method of test

##### 6.3GA.4.1 Initial conditions {#ga.4.1-initial-conditions .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

RF parameters are given in tables 6.3GA.4 and table E.5.1.

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-test-loop-mode1-6 .H6}

Table 6.3GA.3: Specific Message Contents for 16QAM Maximum Input Level
(4C-HSDPA)

  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                       Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2         
  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

##### 6.3GA.4.2 Procedure {#ga.4.2-procedure .H6}

Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.48.

1\) The UE is switched on.

2\) An RRC connection is set-up according to the generic HSDPA set-up
procedure specified in TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.16 with exceptions for
information elements listed in table 6.3GA.3

3\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.3GA.4 and send
power control commands to the UE .The UE output power measured by Test
System shall be kept at the specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.

4\) Measure the HS-PDSCH throughput *R* received by the UE on each
individual cell by counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the
UL HS-DPCCH (Throughput = blocksize\*number of blocks
acknowledged/time).

5\) The UE is switched off.

### 6.3GA.5 Test requirements

The measured throughput, as derived in step 4), shall meet or exceed
700Kbit/second on each individual cell. The minimum number of
measurements required for a statistically significant result to this
test is clarified in annex F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.1.

Table 6.3GA.4: Test requirement parameters for 16QAM Maximum Input Level
(4C-HSDPA)

+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| Parameter                  | Unit     | Value                      |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| Phase reference            |          | P-CPICH                    |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| Wanted signal mean power   | dBm/band | -22.7                      |
| per band (dBm)             |          |                            |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| UE transmitted mean power  | dBm      | 20 (for Power class 3 and  |
|                            |          | 3bis)                      |
|                            |          |                            |
|                            |          | 18 (for Power class 4)     |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| DPCH\_Ec/Ior               | dB       | -13                        |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| HS-SCCH\_1\_Ec/Ior         | dB       | -13                        |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| Redundancy and             |          | 6                          |
| constellation version      |          |                            |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| Maximum number of HARQ     |          | 1                          |
| transmissions              |          |                            |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
| Note 1: The HS-SCCH and    |          |                            |
| corresponding HS-PDSCH     |          |                            |
| shall be transmitted       |          |                            |
| continuously with constant |          |                            |
| power but the HS-SCCH      |          |                            |
| shall only use the         |          |                            |
| identity of the UE under   |          |                            |
| test every third TTI.      |          |                            |
|                            |          |                            |
| Note 2: Wanted signal mean |          |                            |
| power per band is the sum  |          |                            |
| of measured mean power on  |          |                            |
| each carrier in a band     |          |                            |
| over 3.84 MHz.             |          |                            |
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

6.3H Maximum Input Level for 4C-HSDPA Reception (64QAM)
-------------------------------------------------------

### 6.3H.1 Definition and applicability

Maximum input level for DC-HSDPA reception is defined as the maximum
power received at the UE antenna port, which shall not degrade the
specified DC-HSDPA throughput performance.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 10 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support Single band/Dual band
4C-HSDPA with 64QAM and HS-DSCH categories 31 or 32.

Single band/Dual band 4C-HSDPA is designed to operate in configurations
specified in clause 4.2.

### 6.3H.2 Minimum requirements

The additional 4C-HSDPA requirements are specified in terms of a minimum
information throughput per cell R with the DL reference channel H-Set 8C
specified in Annex C.8.1.8, with the addition of the parameters in Table
6.3H.1, and the downlink physical channel setup according to table
E.5.1, applied to all the cells simultaneously. Using this configuration
the throughput shall meet or exceed the minimum requirements specified
in table 6.3H.2.

Table 6.3H.1: Minimum requirement parameters for 64QAM Maximum Input
Level (4C-HSDPA)

+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| Parameter                                     | Unit     | Value   |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| Phase reference                               |          | P-CPICH |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| Wanted signal mean power per band (dBm)       | dBm/band | -22     |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| UE transmitted mean power                     | dBm      | 0       |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| DPCH\_Ec/Ior                                  | dB       | -13     |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| HS-SCCH\_1\_Ec/Ior                            | dB       | -13     |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| Redundancy and constellation version          |          | 6       |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| Maximum number of HARQ transmissions          |          | 1       |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| Note 1: The HS-SCCH and corresponding         |          |         |
| HS-PDSCH shall be transmitted continuously    |          |         |
| with constant power but the HS-SCCH shall     |          |         |
| only use the identity of the UE under test    |          |         |
| every third TTI                               |          |         |
|                                               |          |         |
| Note 2: Wanted signal mean power per band is  |          |         |
| the sum of measured mean power on each        |          |         |
| carrier in a band over 3.84 MHz.              |          |         |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+

Table 6.3H.2: Minimum throughput requirement (4C-HSDPA)

  --------------- --------------
  HS-PDSCH (dB)   T-put (kbps)
  **-2**          11800
  --------------- --------------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 7.4.4.2.

### 6.3H.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE 4C-HSDPA throughput meets the minimum requirements
specified in table 6.3H.2 for the DL reference channel H-Set 8C
specified in Annex C.8.1.8 with the addition of the parameters specified
in table 6.3H.4.

An inadequate maximum input level causes loss of 4C-HSDPA coverage near
the Node B.

This test case tests only 4 carrier configurations.

### 6.3H.4 Method of test

##### 6.3H.4.1 Initial conditions {#h.4.1-initial-conditions .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

RF parameters are given in tables 6.3H.4 and table E.5.1.

##### Contents of RRC CONNECTION SETUP message: UM (Transition to CELL\_DCH) {#contents-of-rrc-connection-setup-message-um-transition-to-cell_dch-3 .H6}

Table 6.3H.3: Specific Message Contents for 64QAM Maximum Input Level
(4C-HSDPA)

  ----------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------
  Information Element                             Value/remark   Version
  Downlink information for per radio links list                  
  -Downlink information for each radio links                     
  \- Downlink DPCH info for each RL                              
  \- DL channelisation code                                      
  \- Code number                                  14             
  ----------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-test-loop-mode1-7 .H6}

  --------------------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                           **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                                 Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                                
  \- CHOICE mode                                FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm                    Algorithm2         
  Downlink information per radio link list                         
  \- Downlink information for each radio link                      
  \- Downlink DPCH info for each RL                                
  \- DL channelisation code                                        
  \- Code number                                7                  
  --------------------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (DC-HSDPA)

  --------------------------------------------- ------------------- --------- --
  Information Element                           Value/remark        Version   
  Downlink HS-PDSCH Information                                               
  \- CHOICE mode                                FDD                           
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured                  TRUE                Rel-7     
  Downlink information per radio link list                                    
  \- Downlink information for each radio link                                 
  \- Downlink DPCH info for each RL                                           
  \- DL channelisation code                                                   
  \- Code number                                7                             
  Downlink secondary cell info FDD                                  Rel-8     
  \- CHOICE Configuration info                  New configuration             
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured                  TRUE                          
  --------------------------------------------- ------------------- --------- --

##### 6.3H.4.2 Procedure {#h.4.2-procedure .H6}

Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.48.

1\) The UE is switched on.

2\) An RRC connection is set-up according to the generic HSDPA set-up
procedure specified in TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.16 exceptions for
information elements listed in table 6.3H.3

3\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.3H.4 and send
power control commands to the UE .The UE output power measured by Test
System shall be kept at the specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.

4\) Measure the HS-PDSCH throughput *R* received by the UE on each
individual cell by counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the
UL HS-DPCCH (Throughput = blocksize\*number of blocks
acknowledged/time).

5\) The UE is switched off.

### 6.3H.5 Test requirements

The measured throughput, as derived in step 4), shall meet or exceed
11800 Kbit/second on each individual cell. The minimum number of
measurements required for a statistically significant result to this
test is clarified in annex F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.1A.

Table 6.3H.4: Test requirement parameters for 64QAM Maximum Input Level
(4C-HSDPA)

+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| Parameter                                     | Unit     | Value   |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| Phase reference                               |          | P-CPICH |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| Wanted signal mean power per band (dBm)       | dBm/band | -22.7   |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| UE transmitted mean power                     | dBm      | 0       |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| DPCH\_Ec/Ior                                  | dB       | -13     |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| HS-SCCH\_1\_Ec/Ior                            | dB       | -13     |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| Redundancy and constellation version          |          | 6       |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| Maximum number of HARQ transmissions          |          | 1       |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| Note 1: The HS-SCCH and corresponding         |          |         |
| HS-PDSCH shall be transmitted continuously    |          |         |
| with constant power but the HS-SCCH shall     |          |         |
| only use the identity of the UE under test    |          |         |
| every third TTI                               |          |         |
|                                               |          |         |
| Note 2: Wanted signal mean power per band is  |          |         |
| the sum of measured mean power on each        |          |         |
| carrier in a band over 3.84 MHz.              |          |         |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

6.3HA Maximum Input Level for 4C-HSDPA Reception (64QAM) (3 carrier)
--------------------------------------------------------------------

### 6.3HA.1 Definition and applicability

Maximum input level for 4C-HSDPA reception is defined as the maximum
power received at the UE antenna port, which shall not degrade the
specified 4C-HSDPA throughput performance.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 10 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support Single band/Dual band
4C-HSDPA with 64QAM and HSDPA UE capability categories 29 to 32.

Single band/Dual band 4C-HSDPA is designed to operate in configurations
specified in clause 4.2.

### 6.3HA.2 Minimum requirements

The additional 4C-HSDPA requirements are specified in terms of a minimum
information throughput per cell R with the DL reference channel H-Set 8B
specified in Annex C.8.1.8, with the addition of the parameters in Table
6.3HA.1, and the downlink physical channel setup according to table
E.5.1, applied to all the cells simultaneously. Using this configuration
the throughput shall meet or exceed the minimum requirements specified
in table 6.3HA.2.

Table 6.3HA.1: Minimum requirement parameters for 64QAM Maximum Input
Level (4C-HSDPA)

+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| Parameter                                     | Unit     | Value   |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| Phase reference                               |          | P-CPICH |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| Wanted signal mean power per band (dBm)       | dBm/band | -22     |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| UE transmitted mean power                     | dBm      | 0       |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| DPCH\_Ec/Ior                                  | dB       | -13     |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| HS-SCCH\_1\_Ec/Ior                            | dB       | -13     |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| Redundancy and constellation version          |          | 6       |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| Maximum number of HARQ transmissions          |          | 1       |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| Note 1: The HS-SCCH and corresponding         |          |         |
| HS-PDSCH shall be transmitted continuously    |          |         |
| with constant power but the HS-SCCH shall     |          |         |
| only use the identity of the UE under test    |          |         |
| every third TTI                               |          |         |
|                                               |          |         |
| Note 2: Wanted signal mean power per band is  |          |         |
| the sum of measured mean power on each        |          |         |
| carrier in a band over 3.84 MHz.              |          |         |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+

Table 6.3HA.2: Minimum throughput requirement (4C-HSDPA)

  --------------- --------------
  HS-PDSCH (dB)   T-put (kbps)
  **-2**          11800
  --------------- --------------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 7.4.4.2.

### 6.3HA.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE 4C-HSDPA throughput meets the minimum requirements
specified in table 6.3HA.2 for the DL reference channel H-Set 8B
specified in Annex C.8.1.8 with the addition of the parameters specified
in table 6.3HA.4.

An inadequate maximum input level causes loss of 4C-HSDPA coverage near
the Node B.

This test case tests only 3 carrier configurations.

### 6.3HA.4 Method of test

##### 6.3HA.4.1 Initial conditions {#ha.4.1-initial-conditions .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

RF parameters are given in tables 6.3HA.4 and table E.5.1.

##### Contents of RRC CONNECTION SETUP message: UM (Transition to CELL\_DCH) {#contents-of-rrc-connection-setup-message-um-transition-to-cell_dch-4 .H6}

Table 6.3HA.3: Specific Message Contents for 64QAM Maximum Input Level
(4C-HSDPA)

  ----------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------
  Information Element                             Value/remark   Version
  Downlink information for per radio links list                  
  -Downlink information for each radio links                     
  \- Downlink DPCH info for each RL                              
  \- DL channelisation code                                      
  \- Code number                                  14             
  ----------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-test-loop-mode1-8 .H6}

  --------------------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                           **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                                 Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                                
  \- CHOICE mode                                FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm                    Algorithm2         
  Downlink information per radio link list                         
  \- Downlink information for each radio link                      
  \- Downlink DPCH info for each RL                                
  \- DL channelisation code                                        
  \- Code number                                7                  
  --------------------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (DC-HSDPA)

  --------------------------------------------- ------------------- --------- --
  Information Element                           Value/remark        Version   
  Downlink HS-PDSCH Information                                               
  \- CHOICE mode                                FDD                           
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured                  TRUE                Rel-7     
  Downlink information per radio link list                                    
  \- Downlink information for each radio link                                 
  \- Downlink DPCH info for each RL                                           
  \- DL channelisation code                                                   
  \- Code number                                7                             
  Downlink secondary cell info FDD                                  Rel-8     
  \- CHOICE Configuration info                  New configuration             
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured                  TRUE                          
  --------------------------------------------- ------------------- --------- --

##### 6.3HA.4.2 Procedure {#ha.4.2-procedure .H6}

Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.48.

1\) The UE is switched on.

2\) An RRC connection is set-up according to the generic HSDPA set-up
procedure specified in TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.16 exceptions for
information elements listed in table 6.3HA.3

3\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.3HA.4 and send
power control commands to the UE .The UE output power measured by Test
System shall be kept at the specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.

4\) Measure the HS-PDSCH throughput *R* received by the UE on each
individual cell by counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the
UL HS-DPCCH (Throughput = blocksize\*number of blocks
acknowledged/time).

5\) The UE is switched off.

### 6.3HA.5 Test requirements

The measured throughput, as derived in step 4), shall meet or exceed
11800 Kbit/second on each individual cell. The minimum number of
measurements required for a statistically significant result to this
test is clarified in annex F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.1A.

Table 6.3HA.4: Test requirement parameters for 64QAM Maximum Input Level
(4C-HSDPA)

+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| Parameter                                     | Unit     | Value   |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| Phase reference                               |          | P-CPICH |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| Wanted signal mean power per band (dBm)       | dBm/band | -22.7   |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| UE transmitted mean power                     | dBm      | 0       |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| DPCH\_Ec/Ior                                  | dB       | -13     |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| HS-SCCH\_1\_Ec/Ior                            | dB       | -13     |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| Redundancy and constellation version          |          | 6       |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| Maximum number of HARQ transmissions          |          | 1       |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
| Note 1: The HS-SCCH and corresponding         |          |         |
| HS-PDSCH shall be transmitted continuously    |          |         |
| with constant power but the HS-SCCH shall     |          |         |
| only use the identity of the UE under test    |          |         |
| every third TTI                               |          |         |
|                                               |          |         |
| Note 2: Wanted signal mean power per band is  |          |         |
| the sum of measured mean power on each        |          |         |
| carrier in a band over 3.84 MHz.              |          |         |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

6.4 Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS) (Rel-99 and Rel-4)
---------------------------------------------------------

### 6.4.1 Definition and applicability

Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS) is a measure of a receiver\'s ability
to receive a W-CDMA signal at its assigned channel frequency in the
presence of an adjacent channel signal at a given frequency offset from
the centre frequency of the assigned channel. ACS is the ratio of the
receive filter attenuation on the assigned channel frequency to the
receive filter attenuation on the adjacent channel(s).

The requirements and this test apply to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE
for Release 99 and Release 4.

### 6.4.2 Minimum Requirements

For the UE of power class 3 and 4, the BER shall not exceed 0,001 for
the parameters specified in table 6.4.1. This test condition is
equivalent to the ACS value 33 dB.

Table 6.4.1: Test parameters for Adjacent Channel Selectivity for
Release 99 and Release 4.

+-----------------------------+------------------------+----------------+
| Parameter                   | Level / Status         | Unit           |
+-----------------------------+------------------------+----------------+
| DPCH\_Ec                    | −103                   | dBm / 3,84 MHz |
+-----------------------------+------------------------+----------------+
| Îor                         | −92,7                  | dBm / 3,84 MHz |
+-----------------------------+------------------------+----------------+
| Ioac mean power (modulated) | −52                    | dBm            |
+-----------------------------+------------------------+----------------+
| Fuw (offset)                | −5 or +5               | MHz            |
+-----------------------------+------------------------+----------------+
| UE transmitted mean power   | 20 (for Power class 3) | dBm            |
|                             |                        |                |
|                             | 18 (for Power class 4) |                |
+-----------------------------+------------------------+----------------+

The normative reference for these requirements is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.5.1.

NOTE: The Ioac (modulated) signal consists of the common channels needed
for tests as specified in table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data channels as
specified in table E.3.6.

### 6.4.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BER does not exceed 0,001 for the test parameters
specified in table 6.4.2.

The lack of the ACS decreases the coverage area when other transmitter
exists in the adjacent channel.

### 6.4.4 Method of test

##### 6.4.4.1 Initial conditions {#initial-conditions-22 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.4.

2\) RF parameters are set up according to table 6.4.2.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure
specified in TS34.108\[3\] sub clause 7.3.2, with the following
exception for information elements in RADIO BEARER SETUP message. With
this exception, the Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to
algorithm 2.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

Table 6.4.1A Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM

  ---------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element          **Value/Remark**
  CHOICE channel requirement   Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm   Algorithm2
  ---------------------------- ------------------

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 6.4.4.2 Procedure {#procedure-22 .H6}

1\) Set the parameters of the interference signal generator as shown in
table 6.4.2.

2\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.4.2 or send the
power control commands (1dB step size should be used.) to the UE until
UE output power measured by Test System shall be kept at the specified
power level with ±1dB tolerance.

3\) Measure the BER of DCH received from the UE at the SS.

### 6.4.5 Test requirements

The measured BER, derived in step 1), shall not exceed 0,001.

Table 6.4.2: Test parameters for Adjacent Channel Selectivity for
Release 99 and Release 4.

+-----------------------------+------------------------+----------------+
| Parameter                   | Level / Status         | Unit           |
+-----------------------------+------------------------+----------------+
| DPCH\_Ec                    | −103                   | dBm / 3,84 MHz |
+-----------------------------+------------------------+----------------+
| Îor                         | −92,7                  | dBm / 3,84 MHz |
+-----------------------------+------------------------+----------------+
| Ioac mean power (modulated) | −52                    | dBm            |
+-----------------------------+------------------------+----------------+
| Fuw (offset)                | −5 or +5               | MHz            |
+-----------------------------+------------------------+----------------+
| UE transmitted mean power   | 20 (for Power class 3) | dBm            |
|                             |                        |                |
|                             | 18 (for Power class 4) |                |
+-----------------------------+------------------------+----------------+

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

6.4A Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS) (Rel-5 and later releases)
------------------------------------------------------------------

### 6.4A.1 Definition and applicability

Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS) is a measure of a receiver\'s ability
to receive a W-CDMA signal at its assigned channel frequency in the
presence of an adjacent channel signal at a given frequency offset from
the centre frequency of the assigned channel. ACS is the ratio of the
receive filter attenuation on the assigned channel frequency to the
receive filter attenuation on the adjacent channel(s).

The requirements and this test apply to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE
for Release 5 and later releases.

### 6.4A.2 Minimum Requirements

For the UE of power class 3, 3bis and 4, the BER shall not exceed 0,001
for the parameters specified in table 6.4A.1. This test condition is
equivalent to the ACS value 33 dB.

Table 6.4A.1: Test parameters for Adjacent Channel Selectivity for
release 5 and later releases

+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Parameter      | Unit         | Case 1         | Case 2         |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| DPCH\_Ec       | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFSENS\> +  | \<REFSENS\> +  |
|                |              | 14 dB          | 41 dB          |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Î~or~          | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFÎ~or~\> + | \<REFÎ~or~\> + |
|                |              | 14 dB          | 41 dB          |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| I~oac~ mean    | dBm          | -52            | -25            |
| power          |              |                |                |
| (modulated)    |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~ (offset) | MHz          | +5 or -5       | +5 or -5       |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| UE transmitted | dBm          | 20 (for Power  | 20 (for Power  |
| mean power     |              | class 3 and    | class 3 and    |
|                |              | 3bis)          | 3bis)          |
|                |              |                |                |
|                |              | 18 (for Power  | 18 (for Power  |
|                |              | class 4)       | class 4)       |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+

The normative reference for these requirements is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.5.1.

NOTE 1: The Ioac (modulated) signal consists of the common channels
needed for tests as specified in table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data
channels as specified in table E.3.6.

NOTE 2: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the DPCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\>
and the DPCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in Table 6.2.1.

### 6.4A.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BER does not exceed 0,001 for the test parameters
specified in table 6.4A.2.

The lack of the ACS decreases the coverage area when other transmitter
exists in the adjacent channel.

### 6.4A.4 Method of test

##### 6.4A.4.1 Initial conditions {#a.4.1-initial-conditions-16 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.4.

2\) RF parameters are set up according to table 6.4A.2.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure
specified in TS34.108\[3\] sub clause 7.3.2, with the following
exception for information elements in RADIO BEARER SETUP message. With
this exception, the Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to
algorithm 2.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

Table 6.4A.1A: Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM

  ---------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element          **Value/Remark**
  CHOICE channel requirement   Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm   Algorithm2
  ---------------------------- ------------------

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 6.4A.4.2 Procedure {#a.4.2-procedure-16 .H6}

1\) Set the parameters of the interference signal generator as shown in
table 6.4A.2 case 1.

2\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.4A.2 case 1 or
send the power control commands (1dB step size should be used.) to the
UE until UE output power measured by Test System shall be kept at the
specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.

3\) Measure the BER of DCH received from the UE at the SS.

4\) Set the parameters of the interference signal generator as shown in
table 6.4A.2 case 2.

5\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.4A.2 case 2 or
send the power control commands (1dB step size should be used.) to the
UE until UE output power measured by Test System shall be kept at the
specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.

6\) Measure the BER of DCH received from the UE at the SS.

### 6.4A.5 Test requirements

The measured BER, derived in step 1) and step 6), shall not exceed
0,001.

Table 6.4A.2: Test parameters for Adjacent Channel Selectivity for
Release 5 and later releases

+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Parameter      | Unit         | Case 1         | Case 2         |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| DPCH\_Ec       | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFSENS\> +  | \<REFSENS\> +  |
|                |              | 14 dB          | 41 dB          |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Î~or~          | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFÎ~or~\> + | \<REFÎ~or~\> + |
|                |              | 14 dB          | 41 dB          |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| I~oac~ mean    | dBm          | -52            | -25            |
| power          |              |                |                |
| (modulated)    |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~ (offset) | MHz          | +5 or -5       | +5 or -5       |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| UE transmitted | dBm          | 20 (for Power  | 20 (for Power  |
| mean power     |              | class 3 and    | class 3 and    |
|                |              | 3bis)          | 3bis)          |
|                |              |                |                |
|                |              | 18 (for Power  | 18 (for Power  |
|                |              | class 4)       | class 4)       |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+

NOTE: 1 The Ioac (modulated) signal consists of the common channels
needed for tests as specified in table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data
channels as specified in table E.3.6.

NOTE 2: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the DPCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\>
and the DPCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in Table 6.2.1.

NOTE 3: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

6.4B Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS) for DC-HSDPA
----------------------------------------------------

### 6.4B.1 Definition and applicability

Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS) is a measure of a receiver\'s ability
to receive a W-CDMA signal at its assigned channel frequency in the
presence of an adjacent channel signal at a given frequency offset from
the centre frequency of the assigned channel. ACS is the ratio of the
receive filter attenuation on the assigned channel frequency to the
receive filter attenuation on the adjacent channel(s).

The requirements and this test apply for Release 8 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support DC-HSDPA.

### 6.4B.2 Minimum Requirements

The UE shall fulfil the additional requirement specified in Table 6.4B.1
for all values of an adjacent channel interferer up to -25 dBm.

However it is not possible to directly measure the ACS, instead the
lower and upper range of test parameters are chosen in Table 6.4.B.2,
where the HS-PDSCH BLER shall not exceed 0.1.

Table 6.4B.1: Adjacent Channel Selectivity

  ------------- ------ -----
  Power Class   Unit   ACS
  3             dB     33
  4             dB     33
  ------------- ------ -----

Table 6.4B.2: Test parameters for Adjacent Channel Selectivity
(DC-HSDPA)

+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Parameter      | Unit         | Case 1         | Case 2         |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-PDSCH\_Ec   | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFSENS\> +  | \<REFSENS\> +  |
|                |              | 14 dB          | 41 dB          |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Î~or~          | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFÎ~or~\> + | \<REFÎ~or~\> + |
|                |              | 14 dB          | 41 dB          |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| I~oac~ mean    | dBm          | -52            | -25            |
| power          |              |                |                |
| (modulated)    |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~ (offset) | MHz          | +5 or -5       | +5 or -5       |
|                |              |                |                |
| (note 2)       |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| UE transmitted | dBm          | 20 (for Power  | 20 (for Power  |
| mean power     |              | class 3 and    | class 3 and    |
|                |              | 3bis)          | 3bis)          |
|                |              |                |                |
|                |              | 18 (for Power  | 18 (for Power  |
|                |              | class 4)       | class 4)       |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+

NOTE 1: The I~oac~ (modulated) signal consists of the common channels
needed for tests as specified in Table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data
channels as specified in Table E.3.6.

NOTE 2: Negative offsets refer to the assigned channel frequency of the
lowest carrier frequency used and positive offsets refer to the assigned
channel frequency of the highest carrier frequency used.

NOTE 3: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the
HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
Table 6.2A.1.

The normative reference for these requirements is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.5.2.

### 6.4B.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BLER of HS-PDSCH does not exceed 0.1 for the test
parameters specified in table 6.4B.4 for the DL reference channel H-Set
12 specified in Annex C.8.1.12.

The lack of the ACS decreases the DC-HSDPA coverage area when other
transmitter exists in the adjacent channel.

### 6.4B.4 Method of test

##### 6.4B.4.1 Initial conditions {#b.4.1-initial-conditions-12 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.31.

2\) RF parameters are set up according to table 6.4B.2.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic DC-HSDPA setup procedure
specified in TS34.108\[3\] sub clause 7.3.13, with exceptions for
information elements listed in Table 6.4B.3. With this exception, the
Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to algorithm 2.

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-test-loop-mode1-9 .H6}

Table 6.4B.3: Specific Message Contents for Adjacent Channel Selectivity
(DC-HSDPA)

  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                       Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2         
  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (DC-HSDPA) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-dc-hsdpa-6 .H6}

  ----------------------------------- ------------------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 Value/remark                   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                                   Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                                  
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                            
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2                     
  Downlink HS-PDSCH Information                                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                            
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured        Not Present                    Rel-7
  \- HS-DSCH TB size table            octet aligned (for H-Set 12)   Rel-7
  Downlink secondary cell info FDD                                   Rel-8
  \- CHOICE Configuration info        New configuration              
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured        Not Present                    
  \- HS-DSCH TB size table            octet aligned (for H-Set 12)   
  ----------------------------------- ------------------------------ ---------

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 6.4B.4.2 Procedure {#b.4.2-procedure-12 .H6}

1\) Set the parameters of the interference signal generator as shown in
table 6.4B.4 case 1.

2\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.4B.4 case 1 or
send the power control commands (1dB step size should be used.) to the
UE until UE output power measured by Test System shall be kept at the
specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.

3\) Measure the BLER of HS-PDSCH received from the UE at the SS by
counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the UL HS-DPCCH (BLER =
(NACK + statDTX)/(NACK + statDTX + ACK)).

4\) Set the parameters of the interference signal generator as shown in
table 6.4B.4 case 2.

5\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.4B.4 case 2 or
send the power control commands (1dB step size should be used.) to the
UE until UE output power measured by Test System shall be kept at the
specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.

6\) Measure the BLER of HS-PDSCH received from the UE at the SS by
counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the UL HS-DPCCH (BLER =
(NACK + statDTX)/(NACK + statDTX + ACK)).

### 6.4B.5 Test requirements

The measured BLER, derived in step 1) and step 6), shall not exceed 0.1
on each individual cell. The minimum number of measurements required for
a statistically significant result to this test is clarified in annex
F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.0.

Table 6.4B.4: Test parameters for Adjacent Channel Selectivity
(DC-HSDPA)

+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Parameter      | Unit         | Case 1         | Case 2         |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-PDSCH\_Ec   | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFSENS\> +  | \<REFSENS\> +  |
|                |              | 14 dB          | 41 dB          |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Î~or~          | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFÎ~or~\> + | \<REFÎ~or~\> + |
|                |              | 14 dB          | 41 dB          |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| I~oac~ mean    | dBm          | -52            | -25            |
| power          |              |                |                |
| (modulated)    |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~ (offset) | MHz          | +5 or -5       | +5 or -5       |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| UE transmitted | dBm          | 20 (for Power  | 20 (for Power  |
| mean power     |              | class 3 and    | class 3 and    |
|                |              | 3bis)          | 3bis)          |
|                |              |                |                |
|                |              | 18 (for Power  | 18 (for Power  |
|                |              | class 4)       | class 4)       |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+

NOTE 1: The I~oac~ (modulated) signal consists of the common channels
needed for tests as specified in Table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data
channels as specified in Table E.3.6.

NOTE 2: Negative offsets refer to the assigned channel frequency of the
lowest carrier frequency used and positive offsets refer to the assigned
channel frequency of the highest carrier frequency used.

NOTE 3: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the
HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
Table 6.2A.1.

NOTE 4: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

6.4C Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS) for DB-DC-HSDPA
-------------------------------------------------------

### 6.4C.1 Definition and applicability

Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS) is a measure of a receiver\'s ability
to receive a W-CDMA signal at its assigned channel frequency in the
presence of an adjacent channel signal at a given frequency offset from
the centre frequency of the assigned channel. ACS is the ratio of the
receive filter attenuation on the assigned channel frequency to the
receive filter attenuation on the adjacent channel(s).

The requirements and this test apply for Release 9 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support DB-DC-HSDPA.

DB-DC-HSDPA is designed to operate in configurations specified in clause
4.2.

### 6.4C.2 Minimum Requirements

The UE shall fulfil the additional requirement specified in Table 6.4C.1
for all values of an adjacent channel interferer up to -25 dBm.

However it is not possible to directly measure the ACS, instead the
lower and upper range of test parameters are chosen in Table 6.4.B.2,
where the HS-PDSCH BLER shall not exceed 0.1.

Table 6.4C.1: Adjacent Channel Selectivity

  ------------- ------ -----
  Power Class   Unit   ACS
  3             dB     33
  4             dB     33
  ------------- ------ -----

Table 6.4C.2: Test parameters for Adjacent Channel Selectivity
(DB-DC-HSDPA)

+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Parameter      | Unit         | Case 1         | Case 2         |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-PDSCH\_Ec   | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFSENS\> +  | \<REFSENS\> +  |
|                |              | 14 dB          | 41 dB          |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Î~or~          | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFÎ~or~\> + | \<REFÎ~or~\> + |
|                |              | 14 dB          | 41 dB          |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| I~oac~ mean    | dBm          | -52            | -25            |
| power          |              |                |                |
| (modulated)    |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~ (offset) | MHz          | +5 or -5       | +5 or -5       |
|                |              |                |                |
| (note 2)       |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| UE transmitted | dBm          | 20 (for Power  | 20 (for Power  |
| mean power     |              | class 3 and    | class 3 and    |
|                |              | 3bis)          | 3bis)          |
|                |              |                |                |
|                |              | 18 (for Power  | 18 (for Power  |
|                |              | class 4)       | class 4)       |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+

NOTE 1: The I~oac~ (modulated) signal consists of the common channels
needed for tests as specified in Table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data
channels as specified in Table E.3.6.

NOTE 2: For DC-HSDPA, negative offset refers to the assigned channel
frequency of the lowest carrier frequency used and positive offset
refers to the assigned channel frequency of the highest carrier
frequency used. For DB-DC-HSDPA, offset refers to the assigned channel
frequencies of the individual cells.

NOTE 3: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the
HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
Table 6.2B.1.

The normative reference for these requirements is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.5.2.

### 6.4C.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BLER of HS-PDSCH does not exceed 0.1 for the test
parameters specified in table 6.4C.4 for the DL reference channel H-Set
12 specified in Annex C.8.1.12.

The lack of the ACS decreases the DB-DC-HSDPA coverage area when other
transmitter exists in the adjacent channel.

### 6.4C.4 Method of test

##### 6.4C.4.1 Initial conditions {#c.4.1-initial-conditions-12 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.31.

2\) RF parameters are set up according to table 6.4C.2.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure
specified in TS34.108\[3\] sub clause 7.3.13, with exceptions for
information elements listed in Table 6.4C.3. With this exception, the
Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to algorithm 2.

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-test-loop-mode1-10 .H6}

Table 6.4C.3: Specific Message Contents for Adjacent Channel Selectivity
(DB-DC-HSDPA)

  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                       Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2         
  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (DC-HSDPA) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-dc-hsdpa-7 .H6}

  ----------------------------------- ------------------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 Value/remark                   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                                   Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                                  
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                            
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2                     
  Downlink HS-PDSCH Information                                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                            
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured        Not Present                    Rel-7
  \- HS-DSCH TB size table            octet aligned (for H-Set 12)   Rel-7
  Downlink secondary cell info FDD                                   Rel-8
  \- CHOICE Configuration info        New configuration              
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured        Not Present                    
  \- HS-DSCH TB size table            octet aligned (for H-Set 12)   
  ----------------------------------- ------------------------------ ---------

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 6.4C.4.2 Procedure {#c.4.2-procedure-12 .H6}

1\) Set the parameters of the interference signal generator as shown in
table 6.4C.4 case 1.

2\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.4C.4 case 1 or
send the power control commands (1dB step size should be used.) to the
UE until UE output power measured by Test System shall be kept at the
specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.

3\) Measure the BLER of HS-PDSCH received from the UE at the SS by
counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the UL HS-DPCCH (BLER =
(NACK + statDTX)/(NACK + statDTX + ACK)).

4\) Set the parameters of the interference signal generator as shown in
table 6.4C.4 case 2.

5\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.4C.4 case 2 or
send the power control commands (1dB step size should be used.) to the
UE until UE output power measured by Test System shall be kept at the
specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.

6\) Measure the BLER of HS-PDSCH received from the UE at the SS by
counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the UL HS-DPCCH (BLER =
(NACK + statDTX)/(NACK + statDTX + ACK)).

### 6.4C.5 Test requirements

The measured BLER, derived in step 1) and step 6), shall not exceed 0.1
on each individual cell. The minimum number of measurements required for
a statistically significant result to this test is clarified in annex
F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.0.

Table 6.4C.4: Test parameters for Adjacent Channel Selectivity
(DB-DC-HSDPA)

+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Parameter      | Unit         | Case 1         | Case 2         |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-PDSCH\_Ec   | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFSENS\> +  | \<REFSENS\> +  |
|                |              | 14 dB          | 41 dB          |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Î~or~          | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFÎ~or~\> + | \<REFÎ~or~\> + |
|                |              | 14 dB          | 41 dB          |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| I~oac~ mean    | dBm          | -52            | -25            |
| power          |              |                |                |
| (modulated)    |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~ (offset) | MHz          | +5 or -5       | +5 or -5       |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| UE transmitted | dBm          | 20 (for Power  | 20 (for Power  |
| mean power     |              | class 3 and    | class 3 and    |
|                |              | 3bis)          | 3bis)          |
|                |              |                |                |
|                |              | 18 (for Power  | 18 (for Power  |
|                |              | class 4)       | class 4)       |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+

NOTE 1: The I~oac~ (modulated) signal consists of the common channels
needed for tests as specified in Table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data
channels as specified in Table E.3.6.

NOTE 2: Offset refers to the assigned channel frequencies of the
individual cells.

NOTE 3: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the
HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
Table 6.2B.1.

NOTE 5: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

6.5 Blocking Characteristics
----------------------------

### 6.5.1 Definition and applicability

The blocking characteristic is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to
receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency in the
presence of an unwanted interferer on frequencies other than those of
the spurious response or the adjacent channels, without this unwanted
input signal causing a degradation of the performance of the receiver
beyond a specified limit. The blocking performance shall apply at all
frequencies except those at which a spurious response occur.

The requirements in clause 6.5.2.1 and 6.5.2.2 and this test apply to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE.

The requirements in clause 6.5.2.3 and this test apply to the FDD UE
supporting Band II, Band III, Band IV, Band V, Band VIII, Band X, Band
XII, Band XIII or Band XIV.

The frequency range 4 requirements do not apply to Release 5 or earlier
releases, but only to Release 6 and onwards.

### 6.5.2 Minimum Requirements

#### 6.5.2.1 Minimum Requirements (In-band blocking)

The BER shall not exceed 0,001 for the parameters specified in table
6.5.1. In-band blocking is defined for an unwanted interfering signal
falling into the UE receive band or into the first 15 MHz below or above
the UE receive band.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.6.1.

Table 6.5.1: Test parameters for In-band blocking characteristics

+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Parameter      | Unit         | Level          |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| DPCH\_Ec       | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFSENS\>+3  |                |
|                |              | dB             |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Î~or~          | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFÎ~or~\> + |                |
|                |              | 3 dB           |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| I~blocking~    | dBm          | -56            | -44            |
| mean power     |              |                |                |
| (modulated)    |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~ offset   |              | =±10 MHz       | ≤-15 MHz       |
|                |              |                |                |
|                |              |                | &              |
|                |              |                |                |
|                |              |                | ≥15 MHz        |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 2102.4≤ f      | 2095≤ f ≤2185  |
|                |              | ≤2177.6\       |                |
| (Band I        |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 1922.4≤ f      | 1915≤ f ≤2005  |
|                |              | ≤1997.6\       |                |
| (Band II       |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 1797.4≤ f      | 1790≤ f ≤1895  |
|                |              | ≤1887.6\       |                |
| (Band III      |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 2102.4≤ f      | 2095≤ f ≤2170  |
|                |              | ≤2162.6\       |                |
| (Band IV       |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 861.4≤ f       | 854≤ f ≤909    |
|                |              | ≤901.6\        |                |
| (Band V        |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 867.4≤ f       | 860≤ f ≤900    |
|                |              | ≤892.6\        |                |
| (Band VI       |              | (Note 2 and 3) | (Note 3)       |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 2612.4≤ f      | 2605 ≤ f ≤     |
|                |              | ≤2697.6\       | 2705           |
| (Band VII      |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 917.4≤ f       | 910 ≤ f ≤ 975  |
|                |              | ≤967.6\        |                |
| (Band VIII     |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 1837.4 ≤ f ≤   | 1829.9 ≤ f ≤   |
|                |              | 1887.4\        | 1894.9         |
| (Band IX       |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 2102.4 ≤ f ≤   | 2095 ≤ f ≤     |
|                |              | 2177.6         | 2185           |
| (Band X        |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              | (Note 2)       |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 1468.4 ≤ f ≤   | 1460.9 ≤ f ≤   |
|                |              | 1503.4         | 1510.9         |
| (Band XI       |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              | (Note 2)       |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 721.4 ≤ f ≤    | 714 ≤ f ≤ 761  |
|                |              | 753.6          |                |
| (Band XII      |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              | (Note 2)       |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 738.4 ≤ f ≤    | 731 ≤ f ≤ 771  |
|                |              | 763.6          |                |
| (Band XIII     |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              | (Note 2)       |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 750.4 ≤ f ≤    | 743 ≤ f ≤ 783  |
|                |              | 775.6          |                |
| (Band XIV      |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              | (Note 2)       |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 867.4≤ f       | 860≤ f ≤905    |
|                |              | ≤897.6\        |                |
| (Band XIX      |              | (Note 2)       | (Note 3)       |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 783.4≤ f       | 776≤ f ≤836    |
|                |              | ≤828.6\        |                |
| (Band XX       |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 1488.4≤ f      | 1480.9≤ f      |
|                |              | ≤1518.4\       | ≤1525.9        |
| (Band XXI      |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                | (Note 3)       |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 3502.4≤ f      | 3495≤ f ≤3605  |
|                |              | ≤3597.6        |                |
| (Band XXII     |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 1922.4≤ f      | 1915≤ f ≤2010  |
|                |              | ≤2002.6        |                |
| (Band XXV      |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 851.4≤ f       | 844≤ f ≤909    |
|                |              | ≤901.6         |                |
| (Band XXVI     |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| UE transmitted | dBm          | 20 (for Power  |                |
| mean power     |              | class 3 and    |                |
|                |              | 3bis)          |                |
|                |              |                |                |
|                |              | 18 (for Power  |                |
|                |              | class 4)       |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+

NOTE 1: I~blocking~ (modulated) consists of the common channels needed
for tests as specified in Table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data channels as
specified in Table E.3.6.

NOTE 2: For each carrier frequency the requirement is valid for two
frequencies, the carrier frequency +/- 10 MHz.

NOTE 3: For Band VI, Band XIX and Band XXI, the unwanted interfering
signal does not fall inside the UE receive band, but within the first 15
MHz below or above the UE receive band.

NOTE 4: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the DPCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\>
and the DPCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in Table 6.2.1.

#### 6.5.2.2 Minimum requirements (Out of-band blocking)

The BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the parameters specified in table
6.5.2. Out-of-band band blocking is defined for an unwanted interfering
signal falling more than 15 MHz below or above the UE receive band. For
table 6.5.2 in frequency range 1, 2 and 3, up to 24 exceptions are
allowed for spurious response frequencies in each assigned frequency
channel when measured using a 1 MHz step size.

For Table 6.5.2 in frequency range 4, up to 8 exceptions are allowed for
spurious response frequencies in each assigned frequency channel when
measured using 1 MHz step size.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.6.2.

Table 6.5.2: Test parameters for Out of band blocking characteristics

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| P        | Unit     | F        | F        | F        | F        |
| arameter |          | requency | requency | requency | requency |
|          |          | range 1  | range 2  | range 3  | range 4  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| DPCH\_Ec | dBm/3.84 | \<REF    | \<REF    | \<REF    | \<R      |
|          | MHz      | SENS\>+3 | SENS\>+3 | SENS\>+3 | EFSENS\> |
|          |          | dB       | dB       | dB       | +3 dB    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Î~or~    | dBm/3.84 | \<RE     | \<RE     | \<RE     | \<RE     |
|          | MHz      | FÎ~or~\> | FÎ~or~\> | FÎ~or~\> | FÎ~or~\> |
|          |          | + 3 dB   | + 3 dB   | + 3 dB   | + 3 dB   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I~b      | dBm      | -44      | -30      | -15      | -15      |
| locking~ |          |          |          |          |          |
| (CW)     |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 2050\<f  | 2025 \<f | 1\< f    | \-       |
|          |          | \<2095   | ≤2050    | ≤2025    |          |
| (Band I  |          |          |          |          |          |
| op       |          | 2185\<f  | 2230 ≤f  | 2255≤    |          |
| eration) |          | \<2230   | \<2255   | f\<12750 |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1870\<f  | 1845 \<f | 1\< f    | 1850 ≤ f |
|          |          | \<1915   | ≤1870    | ≤1845    | ≤ 1910   |
| (Band II |          |          |          |          |          |
| op       |          | 2005\<f  | 2050 ≤f  | 2075≤    |          |
| eration) |          | \<2050   | \<2075   | f\<12750 |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1745 \<f | 1720 \<f | 1\< f    | \-       |
|          |          | \<1790   | ≤ 1745   | ≤1720    |          |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| III      |          | 1895\<f  | 1940≤f   | 1965≤    |          |
| op       |          | \<1940   | \< 1965  | f\<12750 |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 2050\< f | 2025\< f | 1\< f    | \-       |
|          |          | \<2095   | ≤2050    | ≤2025    |          |
| (Band IV |          |          |          |          |          |
| op       |          | 2170\< f | 2215≤ f  | 2240≤    |          |
| eration) |          | \<2215   | \< 2240  | f\<12750 |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 809\< f  | 784\< f  | 1\< f    | 824 ≤ f  |
|          |          | \<854    | ≤809     | ≤784     | ≤ 849    |
| (Band V  |          |          |          |          |          |
| op       |          | 909\< f  | 954≤ f   | 979≤     |          |
| eration) |          | \<954    | \< 979   | f\<12750 |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 815 \< f | 790 \< f | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | \< 860   | ≤ 815    | 790      |          |
| (Band VI |          |          |          |          |          |
| op       |          | 900 \< f | 945 ≤ f  | 970 ≤ f  |          |
| eration) |          | \< 945   | \< 970   | \< 12750 |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 2570 \<  | na       | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | f \<     |          | 2570     |          |
| (Band    |          | 2605     | 2750 ≤ f |          |          |
| VII      |          |          | \< 2775  | 2775 ≤ f |          |
| op       |          | 2705 \<  |          | \< 12750 |          |
| eration) |          | f \<     |          |          |          |
|          |          | 2750     |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 865 \< f | 840 \< f | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | \< 910   | ≤ 865    | 840      |          |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| VIII     |          | 975 \< f | 1020 ≤ f | 1045 ≤ f |          |
| op       |          | \< 1020  | \< 1045  | \< 12750 |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1784.9   | 1759.9   | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | \< f \<  | \< f ≤   | 1759.9   |          |
| (Band IX |          | 1829.9   | 1784.9   |          |          |
| op       |          |          |          | 1964.9 ≤ |          |
| eration) |          | 1894.9   | 1939.9 ≤ | f \<     |          |
|          |          | \< f \<  | f \<     | 12750    |          |
|          |          | 1939.9   | 1964.9   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 2050 \<  | 2025 \<  | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | f \<     | f ≤ 2050 | 2025     |          |
| (Band X  |          | 2095     |          |          |          |
| op       |          |          | 2230 ≤ f | 2255 ≤ f |          |
| eration) |          | 2185 \<  | \< 2255  | \< 12750 |          |
|          |          | f \<     |          |          |          |
|          |          | 2230     |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1415.9   | 1390.9   | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | \< f \<  | \< f ≤   | 1390.9   |          |
| (Band XI |          | 1460.9   | 1415.9   |          |          |
| op       |          |          |          | 1580.9 ≤ |          |
| eration) |          | 1510.9   | 1555.9 ≤ | f\<      |          |
|          |          | \< f \<  | f \<     | 12750    |          |
|          |          | 1555.9   | 1580.9   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 669 \< f | 644 \< f | 1 \< f ≤ | 699 ≤ f  |
|          |          | \< 714   | ≤ 669    | 644      | ≤ 716    |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| XII      |          | 761 \< f | 806 \< f | 831 ≤ f  |          |
| op       |          | \< 806   | \< 831   | \< 12750 |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 686 \< f | 661 \< f | 1 \< f ≤ | 776 ≤ f  |
|          |          | \< 731   | ≤ 686    | 661      | ≤ 788    |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| XIII     |          | 771 \< f | 816 ≤ f  | 841 ≤ f  |          |
| op       |          | \< 816   | \< 841   | \< 12750 |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 698 \< f | 673 \< f | 1 \< f ≤ | 788 ≤ f  |
|          |          | \< 743   | ≤ 698    | 673      | ≤ 798    |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| XIV      |          | 783 \< f | 828 ≤ f  | 853 ≤ f  |          |
| op       |          | \< 828   | \< 853   | \<≤      |          |
| eration) |          |          |          | 12750    |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 815 \< f | 790 \< f | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | \< 860   | ≤ 815    | 790      |          |
| Band XIX |          |          |          |          |          |
| op       |          | 905 \< f | 950 ≤ f  | 975 ≤ f  |          |
| eration) |          | \< 950   | \< 975   | \< 12750 |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 731\< f  | 706 \< f | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | \<776    | ≤ 731    | 706      |          |
| (Band XX |          |          |          |          |          |
| op       |          | 836\< f  | 881 ≤ f  | 906 ≤ f  |          |
| eration) |          | \<881    | \< 906   | \< 12750 |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1435.9   | 1410.9   | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | \< f \<  | \< f ≤   | 1410.9   |          |
| (Band    |          | 1480.9   | 1435.9   |          |          |
| XXI      |          |          |          | 1595.9 ≤ |          |
| op       |          | 1525.9   | 1570.9 ≤ | f \<     |          |
| eration) |          | \< f \<  | f \<     | 12750    |          |
|          |          | 1570.9   | 1595.9   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Fuw      | MHz      | 3450 \<  | 3425 \<  | 1\< f    | \-       |
|          |          | f \<3495 | f ≤ 3450 | ≤3425    |          |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| XXII     |          | 3605\< f | 3650≤ f  | 3675≤    |          |
| op       |          | \<3650   | \< 3675  | f\<12750 |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Fuw      | MHz      | 1870\<f  | 1845 \<f | 1\< f    | 1850 ≤ f |
|          |          | \<1915   | ≤1870    | ≤1845    | ≤ 1915   |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| XXV      |          | 2010\<f  | 2055 ≤f  | 2080≤    |          |
| op       |          | \<2055   | \<2080   | f\<12750 |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 799\< f  | 774 \< f | 1\< f    | 814 ≤ f  |
|          |          | \<844    | ≤799     | ≤774     | ≤ 849    |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| XXVI     |          | 909\< f  | 954 ≤ f  | 979 ≤ f  |          |
| op       |          | \<954    | \< 979   | \< 12750 |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| UE       | dBm      | 20 (for  |          |          |          |
| tra      |          | Power    |          |          |          |
| nsmitted |          | class 3  |          |          |          |
| mean     |          | and      |          |          |          |
| power    |          | 3bis)    |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          | 18 (for  |          |          |          |
|          |          | Power    |          |          |          |
|          |          | class 4) |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band I   | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| peration | ≤2185    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band II  | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 1915≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| peration | ≤2005    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied  |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band III | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 1790≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| peration | ≤1895    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band IV  | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| peration | ≤2170    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band V   | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 854≤\<f  |          |          |          |          |
| peration | ≤909     |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band VI  | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 860≤f    |          |          |          |          |
| peration | ≤900     |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band VII | For 2605 |          |          |          |          |
| o        | ≤ f ≤    |          |          |          |          |
| peration | 2705     |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band     | For 910  |          |          |          |          |
| VIII     | ≤ f ≤    |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 975 MHz, |          |          |          |          |
| peration | the      |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band IX  | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 1        |          |          |          |          |
| peration | 829.9≤f≤ |          |          |          |          |
|          | 1894.9   |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band X   | For 2095 |          |          |          |          |
| o        | ≤ f ≤    |          |          |          |          |
| peration | 2185     |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band XI  | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 1460.9 ≤ |          |          |          |          |
| peration | f ≤      |          |          |          |          |
|          | 1510.9   |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band XII | For 714  |          |          |          |          |
| o        | ≤ f ≤    |          |          |          |          |
| peration | 761 MHz, |          |          |          |          |
|          | the      |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band     | For 731  |          |          |          |          |
| XIII     | ≤ f ≤    |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 771 MHz, |          |          |          |          |
| peration | the      |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band XIV | For 743  |          |          |          |          |
| o        | ≤ f ≤    |          |          |          |          |
| peration | 783 MHz, |          |          |          |          |
|          | the      |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band XIX | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 8        |          |          |          |          |
| peration | 60≤f≤905 |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band XX  | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 7        |          |          |          |          |
| peration | 76≤f≤836 |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band XXI | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 1480.9≤f |          |          |          |          |
| peration | ≤1525.9  |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band     | For      |          |          |          |          |
| XXII     | 3495≤ f  |          |          |          |          |
| o        | ≤3605    |          |          |          |          |
| peration | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band XXV | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 1915≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| peration | ≤2010    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied  |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **Band   | **For    |          |          |          |          |
| XXVI     | 844≤\<f  |          |          |          |          |
| ope      | ≤909     |          |          |          |          |
| ration** | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | ap       |          |          |          |          |
|          | plied.** |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE:    |          |          |          |          |          |
| For the  |          |          |          |          |          |
| UE which |          |          |          |          |          |
| supports |          |          |          |          |          |
| both     |          |          |          |          |          |
| Band XI  |          |          |          |          |          |
| and Band |          |          |          |          |          |
| XXI      |          |          |          |          |          |
| o        |          |          |          |          |          |
| perating |          |          |          |          |          |
| freq     |          |          |          |          |          |
| uencies, |          |          |          |          |          |
| the Out  |          |          |          |          |          |
| of band  |          |          |          |          |          |
| blocking |          |          |          |          |          |
| is FFS.  |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

NOTE: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the DPCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and
the DPCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in Table 6.2.1.

#### 6.5.2.3 Minimum requirements (Narrow band blocking)

The BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the parameters specified in table
6.5.3. This requirement is measure of a receiver\'s ability to receive a
W-CDMA signal at its assigned channel frequency in the presence of an
unwanted narrow band interferer at a frequency, which is less than the
nominal channel spacing. The requirements and this test apply to UTRA
for the FDD UE supporting band II, band III, band IV, band V, band VIII,
band X, band XII, band XIII or band XIV.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.6.3

Table 6.5.3: Test parameters for narrow band blocking

+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Parameter      | Unit         | Band II, IV,   | Band III,      |
|                |              | V, X, XXV,     | VIII, XII,     |
|                |              | XXVI           | XIII, XIV      |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| DPCH\_Ec       | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFSENS\> +  | \<REFSENS\> +  |
|                |              | 10 dB          | 10 dB          |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Î~or~          | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFÎ~or~\> + | \<REFÎ~or~\> + |
|                |              | 10 dB          | 10 dB          |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| I~blocking~    | dBm          | -57            | -56            |
| (GMSK)         |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~ (offset) | MHz          | 2.7            | 2.8            |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| UE transmitted | dBm          | 20 (for Power  |                |
| mean power     |              | class 3 and    |                |
|                |              | 3bis)          |                |
|                |              |                |                |
|                |              | 18 (for Power  |                |
|                |              | class 4)       |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+

NOTE 1: I~blocking~ (GMSK) is an interfering signal as defined in TS
45.004. It is a continuous GMSK modulated carrier following the
structure of the GSM signals, but with all modulating bits (including
the midamble period) derived directly from a random or any pseudo random
data stream.

NOTE 2: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the DPCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\>
and the DPCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in Table 6.2.1.

### 6.5.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BER does not exceed 0,001 for the parameters
specified in table 6.5.4, table 6.5.5 and table 6.5.6. For Table 6.5.5
in frequency range 1, 2 and 3, up to (24) exceptions are allowed for
spurious response frequencies in each assigned frequency channel when
measured using a 1 MHz step size.

For Table 6.5.5 in frequency range 4, up to 8 exceptions are allowed for
spurious response frequencies in each assigned frequency channel when
measured using a 1 MHz step size.

The lack of the blocking ability decreases the coverage area when other
transmitter exists (except in the adjacent channels and spurious
response).

### 6.5.4 Method of test

##### 6.5.4.1 Initial conditions {#initial-conditions-23 .H6}

For in-band case:

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

For out-of-band case:

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequency to be tested: 1 arbitrary frequency chosen from the low, mid
or high range; see clause G.2.4.

For narrow-band case:

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.5.

2\) RF parameters are set up according to table 6.5.4, table 6.5.5 and
table 6.5.6.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure
specified in TS34.108\[3\] sub clause 7.3.2, with the following
exception for information elements in RADIO BEARER SETUP message. With
this exception, the Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to
algorithm 2.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

Table 6.5.3A Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM

  ---------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element          **Value/Remark**
  CHOICE channel requirement   Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm   Algorithm2
  ---------------------------- ------------------

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 6.5.4.2 Procedure {#procedure-23 .H6}

1\) Set the parameters of the CW generator or the interference signal
generator as shown in table 6.5.4, 6.5.5 and table 6.5.6. For table
6.5.5, the frequency step size is 1 MHz.

2\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.5.4, table 6.5.5,
and table 6.5.6, or send the power control commands (1dB step size
should be used.) to the UE until UE output power measured by Test System
shall be kept at the specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.

3\) Measure the BER of DCH received from the UE at the SS.

4\) For table 6.5.5, record the frequencies for which BER exceed the
test requirements.

### 6.5.5 Test requirements

For table 6.5.4, the measured BER, derived in step 2), shall not exceed
0.001. For table 6.5.5, the measured BER, derived in step 2) shall not
exceed 0,001 except for the spurious response frequencies, recorded in
step 3). The number of spurious response frequencies, recorded in step
3) shall not exceed 24 for frequency range 1, 2 and 3. The number of
spurious response frequencies, recorded in step 3) shall not exceed 8
for frequency range 4 . For table 6.5.6, the measured BER, derived in
step 2), shall not exceed 0.001.

Table 6.5.4: Test parameters for In-band blocking characteristics

+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Parameter      | Unit         | Level          |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| DPCH\_Ec       | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFSENS\>+3  |                |
|                |              | dB             |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Î~or~          | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFÎ~or~\> + |                |
|                |              | 3 dB           |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| I~blocking~    | dBm          | -56            | -44            |
| mean power     |              |                |                |
| (modulated)    |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~ offset   |              | =±10 MHz       | ≤-15 MHz       |
|                |              |                |                |
|                |              |                | &              |
|                |              |                |                |
|                |              |                | ≥15 MHz        |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 2102.4≤ f      | 2095≤ f ≤2185  |
|                |              | ≤2177.6\       |                |
| (Band I        |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 1922.4≤ f      | 1915≤ f ≤2005  |
|                |              | ≤1997.6\       |                |
| (Band II       |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 1797.4≤ f      | 1790≤ f ≤1895  |
|                |              | ≤1887.6\       |                |
| (Band III      |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 2102.4≤ f      | 2095≤ f ≤2170  |
|                |              | ≤2162.6\       |                |
| (Band IV       |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 861.4≤ f       | 854≤ f ≤909    |
|                |              | ≤901.6\        |                |
| (Band V        |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 867.4≤ f       | 860≤ f ≤900    |
|                |              | ≤892.6\        |                |
| (Band VI       |              | (Note 2 and 3) | (Note 3)       |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 2612.4≤ f      | 2605 ≤ f ≤     |
|                |              | ≤2697.6\       | 2705           |
| (Band VII      |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 917.4≤ f       | 910 ≤ f ≤ 975  |
|                |              | ≤967.6\        |                |
| (Band VIII     |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 1837.4 ≤ f ≤   | 1829.9 ≤ f ≤   |
|                |              | 1887.4\        | 1894.9         |
| (Band IX       |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 2102.4 ≤ f ≤   | 2095 ≤ f ≤     |
|                |              | 2177.6         | 2185           |
| (Band X        |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              | (Note 2)       |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 1468.4 ≤ f ≤   | 1460.9 ≤ f ≤   |
|                |              | 1503.4         | 1510.9         |
| (Band XI       |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              | (Note 2)       |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 721.4 ≤ f ≤    | 714 ≤ f ≤ 761  |
|                |              | 753.6          |                |
| (Band XII      |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              | (Note 2)       |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 738.4 ≤ f ≤    | 731 ≤ f ≤ 771  |
|                |              | 763.6          |                |
| (Band XIII     |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              | (Note 2)       |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 750.4 ≤ f ≤    | 743 ≤ f ≤ 783  |
|                |              | 775.6          |                |
| (Band XIV      |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              | (Note 2)       |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 867.4≤ f       | 860≤ f ≤905    |
|                |              | ≤897.6\        |                |
| (Band XIX      |              | (Note 2)       | (Note 3)       |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 783.4≤ f       | 776≤ f ≤836    |
|                |              | ≤828.6\        |                |
| (Band XX       |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 1488.4≤ f      | 1480.9≤ f      |
|                |              | ≤1518.4\       | ≤1525.9        |
| (Band XXI      |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                | (Note 3)       |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 3502.4≤ f      | 3495≤ f ≤3605  |
|                |              | ≤3597.6        |                |
| (Band XXII     |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 1922.4≤ f      | 1915≤ f ≤2010  |
|                |              | ≤2002.6        |                |
| (Band XXV      |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 851.4≤ f       | 844≤ f ≤909    |
|                |              | ≤901.6         |                |
| (Band XXVI     |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| UE transmitted | dBm          | 20 (for Power  |                |
| mean power     |              | class 3 and    |                |
|                |              | 3bis)          |                |
|                |              |                |                |
|                |              | 18 (for Power  |                |
|                |              | class 4)       |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+

NOTE 1: I~blocking~ (modulated) consists of the common channels needed
for tests as specified in Table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data channels as
specified in Table E.3.6.

NOTE 2: For each carrier frequency the requirement is valid for two
frequencies, the carrier frequency +/- 10 MHz.

NOTE 3: For Band VI, Band XIX and Band XXI and Band XIX, the unwanted
interfering signal does not fall inside the UE receive band, but within
the first 15 MHz below or above the UE receive band.

NOTE 4: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the DPCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\>
and the DPCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in Table 6.2.1.

Table 6.5.5: Test parameters for Out of band blocking characteristics

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| P        | Unit     | F        | F        | F        | F        |
| arameter |          | requency | requency | requency | requency |
|          |          | range 1  | range 2  | range 3  | range 4  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| DPCH\_Ec | dBm/3.84 | \<REF    | \<REF    | \<REF    | \<R      |
|          | MHz      | SENS\>+3 | SENS\>+3 | SENS\>+3 | EFSENS\> |
|          |          | dB       | dB       | dB       | +3 dB    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Î~or~    | dBm/3.84 | \<RE     | \<RE     | \<RE     | \<RE     |
|          | MHz      | FÎ~or~\> | FÎ~or~\> | FÎ~or~\> | FÎ~or~\> |
|          |          | + 3 dB   | + 3 dB   | + 3 dB   | + 3 dB   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I~b      | dBm      | -44      | -30      | -15      | -15      |
| locking~ |          |          |          |          |          |
| (CW)     |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 2050\<f  | 2025 \<f | 1\< f    | \-       |
|          |          | \<2095   | ≤2050    | ≤2025    |          |
| (Band I  |          |          |          |          |          |
| op       |          | 2185\<f  | 2230 ≤f  | 2255≤    |          |
| eration) |          | \<2230   | \<2255   | f\<12750 |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1870\<f  | 1845 \<f | 1\< f    | 1850 ≤ f |
|          |          | \<1915   | ≤1870    | ≤1845    | ≤ 1910   |
| (Band II |          |          |          |          |          |
| op       |          | 2005\<f  | 2050 ≤f  | 2075≤    |          |
| eration) |          | \<2050   | \<2075   | f\<12750 |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1745 \<f | 1720 \<f | 1\< f    | \-       |
|          |          | \<1790   | ≤ 1745   | ≤1720    |          |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| III      |          | 1895\<f  | 1940≤f   | 1965≤    |          |
| op       |          | \<1940   | \< 1965  | f\<12750 |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 2050\< f | 2025\< f | 1\< f    | \-       |
|          |          | \<2095   | ≤2050    | ≤2025    |          |
| (Band IV |          |          |          |          |          |
| op       |          | 2170\< f | 2215≤ f  | 2240≤    |          |
| eration) |          | \<2215   | \< 2240  | f\<12750 |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 809\< f  | 784\< f  | 1\< f    | 824 ≤ f  |
|          |          | \<854    | ≤809     | ≤784     | ≤ 849    |
| (Band V  |          |          |          |          |          |
| op       |          | 909\< f  | 954≤ f   | 979≤     |          |
| eration) |          | \<954    | \< 979   | f\<12750 |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 815 \< f | 790 \< f | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | \< 860   | ≤ 815    | 790      |          |
| (Band VI |          |          |          |          |          |
| op       |          | 900 \< f | 945 ≤ f  | 970 ≤ f  |          |
| eration) |          | \< 945   | \< 970   | \< 12750 |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 2570 \<  | na       | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | f \<     |          | 2570     |          |
| (Band    |          | 2605     | 2750 ≤ f |          |          |
| VII      |          |          | \< 2775  | 2775 ≤ f |          |
| op       |          | 2705 \<  |          | \< 12750 |          |
| eration) |          | f \<     |          |          |          |
|          |          | 2750     |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 865 \< f | 840 \< f | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | \< 910   | ≤ 865    | 840      |          |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| VIII     |          | 975 \< f | 1020 ≤ f | 1045 ≤ f |          |
| op       |          | \< 1020  | \< 1045  | \< 12750 |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1785 \<  | 1760 \<  | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | f \<     | f ≤ 1785 | 1760     |          |
| (Band IX |          | 1830     |          |          |          |
| op       |          |          | 1940 ≤ f | 1965 ≤ f |          |
| eration) |          | 1895 \<  | \< 1965  | \< 12750 |          |
|          |          | f \<     |          |          |          |
|          |          | 1940     |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 2050 \<  | 2025 \<  | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | f \<     | f ≤ 2050 | 2025     |          |
| (Band X  |          | 2095     |          |          |          |
| op       |          |          | 2230 ≤ f | 2255 ≤ f |          |
| eration) |          | 2185 \<  | \< 2255  | \< 12750 |          |
|          |          | f \<     |          |          |          |
|          |          | 2230     |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1416 \<  | 1391 \<  | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | f \<     | f ≤ 1416 | 1391     |          |
| (Band XI |          | 1461     |          |          |          |
| op       |          |          | 1556 ≤ f | 1581 ≤   |          |
| eration) |          | 1511 \<  | \< 1581  | f\<      |          |
|          |          | f \<     |          | 12750    |          |
|          |          | 1556     |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 669 \< f | 644 \< f | 1 \< f ≤ | 699 ≤ f  |
|          |          | \< 714   | \< 669   | 644      | ≤ 716    |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| XII      |          | 761 \< f | 806 \< f | 831 ≤ f  |          |
| op       |          | \< 806   | \< 831   | \< 12750 |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 686 \< f | 661 \< f | 1 \< f ≤ | 776 ≤ f  |
|          |          | \< 731   | \< 686   | 661      | ≤ 788    |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| XIII     |          | 771 \< f | 816 \< f | 841 ≤ f  |          |
| op       |          | \< 816   | \< 841   | \< 12750 |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 698 \< f | 673 \< f | 1 \< f ≤ | 788 ≤ f  |
|          |          | \< 743   | \< 698   | 673      | ≤ 798    |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| XIV      |          | 783 \< f | 828 \< f | 853 ≤ f  |          |
| op       |          | \< 828   | \< 853   | \< 12750 |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 815 \< f | 790 \< f | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | \< 860   | ≤ 815    | 790      |          |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| XIX      |          | 905 \< f | 950 ≤ f  | 975 ≤ f  |          |
| op       |          | \< 950   | \< 975   | \< 12750 |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 731\< f  | 706 \< f | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | \<776    | ≤ 731    | 706      |          |
| (Band XX |          |          |          |          |          |
| op       |          | 836\< f  | 881 ≤ f  | 906 ≤ f  |          |
| eration) |          | \<881    | \< 906   | \< 12750 |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1436 \<  | 1411 \<  | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | f \<     | f ≤ 1436 | 1411     |          |
| (Band    |          | 1481     |          |          |          |
| XXI      |          |          | 1571 ≤ f | 1596 ≤   |          |
| op       |          | 1526 \<  | \< 1596  | f\<      |          |
| eration) |          | f \<     |          | 12750    |          |
|          |          | 1571     |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Fuw      | MHz      | 3450 \<  | 3425 \<  | 1\< f    | \-       |
|          |          | f \<3495 | f ≤ 3450 | ≤3425    |          |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| XXII     |          | 3605\< f | 3650≤ f  | 3675≤    |          |
| op       |          | \<3650   | \< 3675  | f\<12750 |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1870\<f  | 1845 \<f | 1\< f    | 1850 ≤ f |
|          |          | \<1915   | ≤1870    | ≤1845    | ≤ 1915   |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| XXV      |          | 2010\<f  | 2055 ≤f  | 2080≤    |          |
| op       |          | \<2055   | \<2080   | f\<12750 |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 799\< f  | 774 \< f | 1\< f    | 814 ≤ f  |
|          |          | \<844    | ≤799     | ≤774     | ≤ 849    |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| XXVI     |          | 909\< f  | 954 ≤ f  | 979 ≤ f  |          |
| op       |          | \<954    | \< 979   | \< 12750 |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| UE       | dBm      | 20 (for  |          |          |          |
| tra      |          | Power    |          |          |          |
| nsmitted |          | class 3  |          |          |          |
| mean     |          | and      |          |          |          |
| power    |          | 3bis)    |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          | 18 (for  |          |          |          |
|          |          | Power    |          |          |          |
|          |          | class 4) |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band I   | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| peration | ≤2185    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band II  | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 1915≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| peration | ≤2005    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied  |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band III | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 1790≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| peration | ≤1895    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band IV  | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| peration | ≤2170    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band V   | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 854≤\<f  |          |          |          |          |
| peration | ≤909     |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band VI  | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 860      |          |          |          |          |
| peration | \<f\<875 |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz and  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 885      |          |          |          |          |
|          | \<f\<900 |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied  |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band VII | For 2605 |          |          |          |          |
| o        | ≤ f ≤    |          |          |          |          |
| peration | 2705     |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band     | For 910  |          |          |          |          |
| VIII     | ≤ f ≤    |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 975 MHz, |          |          |          |          |
| peration | the      |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band IX  | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 1830≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| peration | ≤1895    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band X   | For 2095 |          |          |          |          |
| o        | ≤ f ≤    |          |          |          |          |
| peration | 2185     |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band XI  | For 1461 |          |          |          |          |
| o        | ≤ f ≤    |          |          |          |          |
| peration | 1511     |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band XII | For 714  |          |          |          |          |
| o        | ≤ f ≤    |          |          |          |          |
| peration | 761 MHz, |          |          |          |          |
|          | the      |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band     | For 731  |          |          |          |          |
| XIII     | ≤ f ≤    |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 771 MHz, |          |          |          |          |
| peration | the      |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band XIV | For 743  |          |          |          |          |
| o        | ≤ f ≤    |          |          |          |          |
| peration | 783 MHz, |          |          |          |          |
|          | the      |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band XIX | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 8        |          |          |          |          |
| peration | 60≤f≤905 |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band XX  | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 7        |          |          |          |          |
| peration | 76≤f≤836 |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | clause   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band XXI | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 1480.9≤f |          |          |          |          |
| peration | ≤1525.9  |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band     | For      |          |          |          |          |
| XXII     | 3495≤ f  |          |          |          |          |
| o        | ≤3605    |          |          |          |          |
| peration | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band XXV | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 1915≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| peration | ≤2010    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied  |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **Band   | **For    |          |          |          |          |
| XXVI     | 844≤f    |          |          |          |          |
| ope      | ≤909     |          |          |          |          |
| ration** | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | a        |          |          |          |          |
|          | pplied** |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE:    |          |          |          |          |          |
| For the  |          |          |          |          |          |
| UE which |          |          |          |          |          |
| supports |          |          |          |          |          |
| both     |          |          |          |          |          |
| Band XI  |          |          |          |          |          |
| and Band |          |          |          |          |          |
| XXI      |          |          |          |          |          |
| o        |          |          |          |          |          |
| perating |          |          |          |          |          |
| freq     |          |          |          |          |          |
| uencies, |          |          |          |          |          |
| the Out  |          |          |          |          |          |
| of band  |          |          |          |          |          |
| blocking |          |          |          |          |          |
| is FFS.  |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

NOTE 1: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the DPCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\>
and the DPCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in Table 6.2.1.

Table 6.5.6: Test parameters for narrow band blocking

+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Parameter      | Unit         | Band II, IV,   | Band III,      |
|                |              | V, X, XXV,     | VIII, XII,     |
|                |              | XXVI           | XIII, XIV      |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| DPCH\_Ec       | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFSENS\> +  | \<REFSENS\> +  |
|                |              | 10 dB          | 10 dB          |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Î~or~          | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFÎ~or~\> + | \<REFÎ~or~\> + |
|                |              | 10 dB          | 10 dB          |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| I~blocking~    | dBm          | -57            | -56            |
| (GMSK)         |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~ (offset) | MHz          | 2.7            | 2.8            |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| UE transmitted | dBm          | 20 (for Power  |                |
| mean power     |              | class 3 and    |                |
|                |              | 3bis)          |                |
|                |              |                |                |
|                |              | 18 (for Power  |                |
|                |              | class 4)       |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+

NOTE 2: I~blocking~ (GMSK) is an interfering signal as defined in TS
45.004. It is a continuous GMSK modulated carrier following the
structure of the GSM signals, but with all modulating bits (including
the midamble period) derived directly from a random or any pseudo random
data stream.

NOTE 3: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the DPCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\>
and the DPCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in Table 6.2.1.

NOTE 4: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

6.5A Blocking Characteristics for DC-HSDPA
------------------------------------------

### 6.5A.1 Definition and applicability

The blocking characteristic is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to
receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency in the
presence of an unwanted interferer on frequencies other than those of
the spurious response or the adjacent channels, without this unwanted
input signal causing a degradation of the performance of the receiver
beyond a specified limit. The blocking performance shall apply at all
frequencies except those at which a spurious response occur.

The requirements in clause 6.5A.2.1 and 6.5A.2.2 and this test apply for
Release 8 and later releases to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that
support DC-HSDPA.

The requirements in clause 6.5A.2.3 and this test apply for Release 8
and later releases to the FDD UE that support DC-HSDPA and are
supporting Band II, Band III, Band IV, Band V, Band VIII, Band X, Band
XII, Band XIII or Band XIV.

### 6.5A.2 Minimum Requirements

#### 6.5A.2.1 Minimum Requirements (In-band blocking)

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.5A.1. In-band blocking is defined for an
unwanted interfering signal falling into the UE receive band or into the
first 15 MHz below or above the UE receive band.

Table 6.5A.1: In-band blocking for DC-HSDPA

+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Parameter      | Unit         | Level          |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-PDSCH\_Ec   | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFSENS\>+3  |                |
|                |              | dB             |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Î~or~          | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFÎ~or~\> + |                |
|                |              | 3 dB           |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| I~blocking~    | dBm          | -56            | -44            |
| mean power     |              |                |                |
| (modulated)    |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~ offset   |              | =±10 MHz       | ≤-15 MHz       |
|                |              |                |                |
| (note 4)       |              |                | &              |
|                |              |                |                |
|                |              |                | ≥15 MHz        |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 2102.4≤ f      | 2095≤ f ≤2185  |
|                |              | ≤2177.6\       |                |
| (Band I        |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 1922.4≤ f      | 1915≤ f ≤2005  |
|                |              | ≤1997.6\       |                |
| (Band II       |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 1797.4≤ f      | 1790≤ f ≤1895  |
|                |              | ≤1887.6\       |                |
| (Band III      |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 2102.4≤ f      | 2095≤ f ≤2170  |
|                |              | ≤2162.6\       |                |
| (Band IV       |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 861.4≤ f       | 854≤ f ≤909    |
|                |              | ≤901.6\        |                |
| (Band V        |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 867.4≤ f       | 860≤ f ≤900    |
|                |              | ≤892.6\        |                |
| (Band VI       |              | (Note 2 and 3) | (Note 3)       |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 2612.4≤ f      | 2605 ≤ f ≤     |
|                |              | ≤2697.6\       | 2705           |
| (Band VII      |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Fuw            | MHz          | 917.4≤ f       | 910 ≤ f ≤ 975  |
|                |              | ≤967.6\        |                |
| (Band VIII     |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 1837.4 ≤ f ≤   | 1829.9 ≤ f ≤   |
|                |              | 1887.4\        | 1894.9         |
| (Band IX       |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 2102.4 ≤ f ≤   | 2095 ≤ f ≤     |
|                |              | 2177.6\        | 2185           |
| (Band X        |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 1468.4 ≤ f ≤   | 1460.9 ≤ f ≤   |
|                |              | 1503.4\        | 1510.9         |
| (Band XI       |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 721.4 ≤ f ≤    | 714 ≤ f ≤ 761  |
|                |              | 753.6\         |                |
| (Band XII      |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 738.4 ≤ f ≤    | 731 ≤ f ≤ 771  |
|                |              | 763.6\         |                |
| (Band XIII     |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 750.4 ≤ f ≤    | 743 ≤ f ≤ 783  |
|                |              | 775.6\         |                |
| (Band XIV      |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 867.4≤ f       | 860≤ f ≤905    |
|                |              | ≤897.6\        |                |
| (Band XIX      |              | (Note 2)       | (Note 3)       |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 783.4≤ f       | 776≤ f ≤836    |
|                |              | ≤828.6\        |                |
| (Band XX       |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 1488.4≤ f      | 1480.9≤ f      |
|                |              | ≤1518.4\       | ≤1525.9        |
| (Band XXI      |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                | (Note 3)       |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Fuw            | MHz          | 3502.4≤ f      | 3495≤ f ≤3605  |
|                |              | ≤3597.6        |                |
| (Band XXII     |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              | (Note 2)       |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 1922.4≤ f      | 1915≤ f ≤2010  |
|                |              | ≤2002.6        |                |
| (Band XXV      |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 851.4≤ f       | 844≤ f ≤909    |
|                |              | ≤901.6         |                |
| (Band XXVI     |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| UE transmitted | dBm          | 20 (for Power  |                |
| mean power     |              | class 3 and    |                |
|                |              | 3bis)          |                |
|                |              |                |                |
|                |              | 18 (for Power  |                |
|                |              | class 4)       |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+

NOTE 1: I~blocking~ (modulated) consists of the common channels needed
for tests as specified in Table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data channels as
specified in Table E.3.6.

NOTE 2: For each carrier frequency the requirement is valid for two
frequencies, the carrier frequency +/- 10 MHz.

NOTE 3: For Band VI, Band XIX and Band XXI, the unwanted interfering
signal does not fall inside the UE receive band, but within the first 15
MHz below or above the UE receive band.

NOTE 4: Negative offsets refer to the assigned channel frequency of the
lowest carrier frequency used and positive offsets refer to the assigned
channel frequency of the highest carrier frequency used.

NOTE 5: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the
HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
Table 6.2A.1.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.6.1A.

#### 6.5A.2.2 Minimum requirements (Out of-band blocking)

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.5A.2. Out-of-band band blocking is
defined for an unwanted interfering signal falling more than 15 MHz
below or above the UE receive band.

For Table 6.5A.2 in frequency range 1, 2 and 3, up to 24 exceptions per
received cell are allowed for spurious response frequencies in each
assigned frequency channel when measured using a 1 MHz step size. For
these exceptions the requirements of clause 6.6A spurious response are
applicable.

For Table 6.5.A.2 in frequency range 4, up to 8 exceptions per received
cell are allowed for spurious response frequencies in each assigned
frequency channel when measured using a 1 MHz step size. For these
exceptions the requirements of clause 6.6A spurious response are
applicable.

Table 6.5A.2: Out of band blocking for DC-HSDPA

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| P        | Unit     | F        | F        | F        | F        |
| arameter |          | requency | requency | requency | requency |
|          |          | range 1  | range 2  | range 3  | range 4  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| HS-P     | dBm /    | \<REF    | \<REF    | \<REF    | \<R      |
| DSCH\_Ec | 3.84 MHz | SENS\>+3 | SENS\>+3 | SENS\>+3 | EFSENS\> |
|          |          | dB       | dB       | dB       | +3 dB    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Î~or~    | dBm /    | \<RE     | \<RE     | \<RE     | \<RE     |
|          | 3.84 MHz | FÎ~or~\> | FÎ~or~\> | FÎ~or~\> | FÎ~or~\> |
|          |          | + 3 dB   | + 3 dB   | + 3 dB   | + 3 dB   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I~b      | dBm      | -44      | -30      | -15      | -15      |
| locking~ |          |          |          |          |          |
| (CW)     |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 2050\<f  | 2025 \<f | 1\< f    | \-       |
|          |          | \<2095   | ≤2050    | ≤2025    |          |
| (Band I  |          |          |          |          |          |
| op       |          | 2185\<f  | 2230 ≤f  | 2255≤    |          |
| eration) |          | \<2230   | \<2255   | f\<12750 |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1870\<f  | 1845 \<f | 1\< f    | 1850 ≤ f |
|          |          | \<1915   | ≤1870    | ≤1845    | ≤ 1910   |
| (Band II |          |          |          |          |          |
| op       |          | 2005\<f  | 2050 ≤f  | 2075≤    |          |
| eration) |          | \<2050   | \<2075   | f\<12750 |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1745 \<f | 1720 \<f | 1\< f    | \-       |
|          |          | \<1790   | ≤ 1745   | ≤1720    |          |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| III      |          | 1895\<f  | 1940≤f   | 1965≤    |          |
| op       |          | \<1940   | \< 1965  | f\<12750 |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 2050\< f | 2025\< f | 1\< f    | \-       |
|          |          | \<2095   | ≤2050    | ≤2025    |          |
| (Band IV |          |          |          |          |          |
| op       |          | 2170\< f | 2215≤ f  | 2240≤    |          |
| eration) |          | \<2215   | \< 2240  | f\<12750 |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 809\< f  | 784\< f  | 1\< f    | 824 ≤ f  |
|          |          | \<854    | ≤809     | ≤784     | ≤ 849    |
| (Band V  |          |          |          |          |          |
| op       |          | 909\< f  | 954≤ f   | 979≤     |          |
| eration) |          | \<954    | \< 979   | f\<12750 |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 815 \< f | 790 \< f | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | \< 860   | ≤ 815    | 790      |          |
| (Band VI |          |          |          |          |          |
| op       |          | 900 \< f | 945 ≤ f  | 970 ≤ f  |          |
| eration) |          | \< 945   | \< 970   | \< 12750 |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 2570 \<  | na       | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | f \<     |          | 2570     |          |
| (Band    |          | 2605     | 2750 ≤ f |          |          |
| VII      |          |          | \< 2775  | 2775 ≤ f |          |
| op       |          | 2705 \<  |          | \< 12750 |          |
| eration) |          | f \<     |          |          |          |
|          |          | 2750     |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 865 \< f | 840 \< f | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | \< 910   | ≤ 865    | 840      |          |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| VIII     |          | 975 \< f | 1020 ≤ f | 1045 ≤ f |          |
| op       |          | \< 1020  | \< 1045  | \< 12750 |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1784.9   | 1759.9   | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | \< f \<  | \< f ≤   | 1759.9   |          |
| (Band IX |          | 1829.9   | 1784.9   |          |          |
| op       |          |          |          | 1964.9 ≤ |          |
| eration) |          | 1894.9   | 1939.9 ≤ | f \<     |          |
|          |          | \< f \<  | f \<     | 12750    |          |
|          |          | 1939.9   | 1964.9   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 2050 \<  | 2025 \<  | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | f \<     | f ≤ 2050 | 2025     |          |
| (Band X  |          | 2095     |          |          |          |
| op       |          |          | 2230 ≤ f | 2255     |          |
| eration) |          | 2185 \<  | \< 2255  | ≤f\<     |          |
|          |          | f \<     |          | 12750    |          |
|          |          | 2230     |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1415.9   | 1390.9   | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | \< f \<  | \< f ≤   | 1390.9   |          |
| (Band XI |          | 1460.9   | 1415.9   |          |          |
| op       |          |          |          | 1580.9 ≤ |          |
| eration) |          | 1510.9   | 1555.9 ≤ | f \<     |          |
|          |          | \< f \<  | f \<     | 12750    |          |
|          |          | 1555.9   | 1580.9   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 669 \< f | 644 \< f | 1 \< f ≤ | 699 ≤ f  |
|          |          | \< 714   | ≤ 669    | 644      | ≤ 716    |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| XII      |          | 761 \< f | 806 ≤ f  | 831 ≤f\< |          |
| op       |          | \< 806   | \< 831   | 12750    |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 686 \< f | 661 \< f | 1 \< f ≤ | 776 ≤ f  |
|          |          | \< 731   | ≤ 686    | 661      | ≤ 788    |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| XIII     |          | 771 \< f | 816 ≤ f  | 841 ≤f\< |          |
| op       |          | \< 816   | \< 841   | 12750    |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 698 \< f | 673 \< f | 1 \< f ≤ | 788 ≤ f  |
|          |          | \< 743   | ≤ 698    | 673      | ≤ 798    |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| XIV      |          | 783 \< f | 828 ≤ f  | 853 ≤f\< |          |
| op       |          | \< 828   | \< 853   | 12750    |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 815 \< f | 790 \< f | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | \< 860   | ≤ 815    | 790      |          |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| XIX      |          | 905 \< f | 950 ≤ f  | 975 ≤ f  |          |
| op       |          | \< 950   | \< 975   | \< 12750 |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 731\< f  | 706 \< f | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | \<776    | ≤ 731    | 706      |          |
| (Band XX |          |          |          |          |          |
| op       |          | 836\< f  | 881 ≤ f  | 906 ≤ f  |          |
| eration) |          | \<881    | \< 906   | \< 12750 |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1435.9   | 1410.9   | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | \< f \<  | \< f ≤   | 1410.9   |          |
| (Band    |          | 1480.9   | 1435.9   |          |          |
| XXI      |          |          |          | 1595.9 ≤ |          |
| op       |          | 1525.9   | 1570.9 ≤ | f \<     |          |
| eration) |          | \< f \<  | f \<     | 12750    |          |
|          |          | 1570.9   | 1595.9   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 3450 \<f | 3425 \<f | 1\< f    | \-       |
|          |          | \<3495   | ≤ 3450   | ≤3425    |          |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| XXII     |          | 3605\<f  | 3650≤f   | 3675≤    |          |
| op       |          | \<3650   | \< 3675  | f\<12750 |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1870\<f  | 1845 \<f | 1\< f    | 1850 ≤ f |
|          |          | \<1915   | ≤1870    | ≤1845    | ≤ 1915   |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| XXV      |          | 2010\<f  | 2055 ≤f  | 2080≤    |          |
| op       |          | \<2055   | \<2080   | f\<12750 |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 799\< f  | 774 \< f | 1\< f    | 814 ≤ f  |
|          |          | \<844    | ≤799     | ≤774     | ≤ 849    |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| XXVI     |          | 909\< f  | 954 ≤ f  | 979 ≤ f  |          |
| op       |          | \<954    | \< 979   | \< 12750 |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| UE       | dBm      | 20 (for  |          |          |          |
| tra      |          | Power    |          |          |          |
| nsmitted |          | class 3  |          |          |          |
| mean     |          | and      |          |          |          |
| power    |          | 3bis)    |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          | 18 (for  |          |          |          |
|          |          | Power    |          |          |          |
|          |          | class 4) |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band I   | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| peration | ≤2185    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band II  | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 1915≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| peration | ≤2005    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band III | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 1790≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| peration | ≤1895    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band IV  | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 209      |          |          |          |          |
| peration | 5≤f≤2170 |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band V   | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 8        |          |          |          |          |
| peration | 54≤f≤909 |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band VI  | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 8        |          |          |          |          |
| peration | 60≤f≤900 |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band VII | For 2605 |          |          |          |          |
| o        | ≤ f ≤    |          |          |          |          |
| peration | 2705     |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band     | For 910  |          |          |          |          |
| VIII     | ≤ f ≤    |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 975 MHz, |          |          |          |          |
| peration | the      |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band IX  | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 1        |          |          |          |          |
| peration | 829.9≤f≤ |          |          |          |          |
|          | 1894.9   |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band X   | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| peration | ≤2185    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band XI  | For      |          |          |          |          |
|          | 1        |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 460.9≤f≤ |          |          |          |          |
| peration | 1510.9   |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band XII | For 714  |          |          |          |          |
|          | ≤ f ≤    |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 761 MHz, |          |          |          |          |
| peration | the      |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band     | For 731  |          |          |          |          |
| XIII     | ≤ f ≤    |          |          |          |          |
|          | 771 MHz, |          |          |          |          |
| o        | the      |          |          |          |          |
| peration | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band XIV | For 743  |          |          |          |          |
|          | ≤ f ≤    |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 783 MHz, |          |          |          |          |
| peration | the      |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band XX  | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 7        |          |          |          |          |
| peration | 76≤f≤836 |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band XIX | For      |          |          |          |          |
|          | 8        |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 60≤f≤905 |          |          |          |          |
| peration | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band XXI | For      |          |          |          |          |
|          | 1480.9≤f |          |          |          |          |
| o        | ≤1525.9  |          |          |          |          |
| peration | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band     | For      |          |          |          |          |
| XXII     | 3495≤ f  |          |          |          |          |
| o        | ≤3605    |          |          |          |          |
| peration | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band XXV | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 1915≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| peration | ≤2010    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied  |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band     | For      |          |          |          |          |
| XXVI     | 8        |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 44≤f≤909 |          |          |          |          |
| peration | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE:    |          |          |          |          |          |
| For the  |          |          |          |          |          |
| UE which |          |          |          |          |          |
| supports |          |          |          |          |          |
| both     |          |          |          |          |          |
| Band XI  |          |          |          |          |          |
| and Band |          |          |          |          |          |
| XXI      |          |          |          |          |          |
| o        |          |          |          |          |          |
| perating |          |          |          |          |          |
| freq     |          |          |          |          |          |
| uencies, |          |          |          |          |          |
| the Out  |          |          |          |          |          |
| of band  |          |          |          |          |          |
| blocking |          |          |          |          |          |
| is FFS.  |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

NOTE: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\>
and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in Table 6.2A.1

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.6.2A.

#### 6.5A.2.3 Minimum requirements (Narrow band blocking) 

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.5A.3. This requirement is measure of a
receiver's ability to receive a W-CDMA signal at its assigned channel
frequency in the presence of an unwanted narrow band interferer at a
frequency, which is less than the nominal channel spacing.

Table 6.5A.3: Narrow band blocking characteristics for DC-HSDPA

+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Parameter      | Unit         | Band II, IV,   | Band III,      |
|                |              | V, X, XXV,     | VIII, XII,     |
|                |              | XXVI           | XIII, XIV      |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-PDSCH\_Ec   | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFSENS\> +  | \<REFSENS\> +  |
|                |              | 10 dB          | 10 dB          |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Î~or~          | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFÎ~or~\> + | \<REFÎ~or~\> + |
|                |              | 10 dB          | 10 dB          |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| I~blocking~    | dBm          | -57            | -56            |
| (GMSK)         |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~ (offset) | MHz          | ±2.7           | ±2.8           |
|                |              |                |                |
| (NOTE 2)       |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| UE transmitted | dBm          | 20 (for Power  |                |
| mean power     |              | class 3 and    |                |
|                |              | 3bis)          |                |
|                |              |                |                |
|                |              | 18 (for Power  |                |
|                |              | class 4)       |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+

NOTE 1: I~blocking~ (GMSK) is an interfering signal as defined in TS
45.004.

NOTE 2: Negative offsets refer to the assigned channel frequency of the
lowest carrier frequency used and positive offsets refer to the assigned
channel frequency of the highest carrier frequency used.

NOTE 3: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the
HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
Table 6.2A.1.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.6.3A.

### 6.5A.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BLER of HS-PDSCH on each individual cell does not
exceed 0.1 for the parameters specified in table 6.5A.5, table 6.5A.6
and table 6.5A.7 for the DL reference channel H-Set 12 specified in
Annex C.8.1.12.

The lack of the blocking ability decreases the DC-HSDPA coverage area
when other transmitter exists (except in the adjacent channels and
spurious response).

### 6.5A.4 Method of test

##### 6.5A.4.1 Initial conditions {#a.4.1-initial-conditions-17 .H6}

For in-band case:

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

For out-of-band case:

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequency to be tested: 1 arbitrary frequency chosen from the low, mid
or high range; see clause G.2.4.

For narrow-band case:

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.32.

2\) RF parameters are set up according to table 6.5A.5, table 6.5A.6 and
table 6.5A.7.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic DC-HSDPA setup procedure
specified in TS34.108\[3\] sub clause 7.3.13, with exceptions for
information elements listed in Table 6.5A.4. With this exception, the
Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to algorithm 2.

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-test-loop-mode1-11 .H6}

Table 6.5A.: Specific Message Contents for In-band blocking
characteristics for DC-HSDPA

  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                       Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2         
  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (DC-HSDPA) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-dc-hsdpa-8 .H6}

  ----------------------------------- ------------------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 Value/remark                   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                                   Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                                  
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                            
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2                     
  Downlink HS-PDSCH Information                                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                            
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured        Not Present                    Rel-7
  \- HS-DSCH TB size table            octet aligned (for H-Set 12)   Rel-7
  Downlink secondary cell info FDD                                   Rel-8
  \- CHOICE Configuration info        New configuration              
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured        Not Present                    
  \- HS-DSCH TB size table            octet aligned (for H-Set 12)   
  ----------------------------------- ------------------------------ ---------

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 6.5A.4.2 Procedure {#a.4.2-procedure-17 .H6}

1\) Set the parameters of the CW generator or the interference signal
generator as shown in table 6.5A.5, table 6.5A.6 and table 6.5A.6. For
table 6.5A.6, the frequency step size is 1 MHz.

2\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.5A.5, table
6.5A.6, and table 6.5A.7, or send the power control commands (1dB step
size should be used.) to the UE until UE output power measured by Test
System shall be kept at the specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.

3\) Measure the BLER of HS-PDSCH received from the UE at the SS by
counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the UL HS-DPCCH (BLER =
(NACK + statDTX)/(NACK + statDTX + ACK)).

4\) For table 6.5A.6, record the frequencies for which BLER exceed the
test requirements.

### 6.5A.5 Test requirements

For table 6.5A.5, the measured BLER, derived in step 2), shall not
exceed 0.1 on each individual cell. For table 6.5A.6, the measured BLER,
derived in step 2) shall not exceed 0.1 on each individual cell except
for the spurious response frequencies, recorded in step 3). The number
of spurious response frequencies, recorded in step 3) shall not exceed
24 for frequency range 1, 2 and 3. The number of spurious response
frequencies, recorded in step 3) shall not exceed 8 for frequency range
4 . For table 6.5A.7, the measured BLER, derived in step 2), shall not
exceed 0.1 on each individual cell. The minimum number of measurements
required for a statistically significant result to this test is
clarified in annex F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.0.

Table 6.5A.5: Test parameters for In-band blocking characteristics for
DC-HSDPA

+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Parameter      | Unit         | Level          |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-PDSCH\_Ec   | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFSENS\>+3  |                |
|                |              | dB             |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Î~or~          | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFÎ~or~\> + |                |
|                |              | 3 dB           |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| I~blocking~    | dBm          | -56            | -44            |
| mean power     |              |                |                |
| (modulated)    |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~ offset   |              | =±10 MHz       | ≤-15 MHz       |
|                |              |                |                |
| (NOTE 4)       |              |                | &              |
|                |              |                |                |
|                |              |                | ≥15 MHz        |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 2102.4≤ f      | 2095≤ f ≤2185  |
|                |              | ≤2177.6\       |                |
| (Band I        |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 1922.4≤ f      | 1915≤ f ≤2005  |
|                |              | ≤1997.6\       |                |
| (Band II       |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 1797.4≤ f      | 1790≤ f ≤1895  |
|                |              | ≤1887.6\       |                |
| (Band III      |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 2102.4≤ f      | 2095≤ f ≤2170  |
|                |              | ≤2162.6\       |                |
| (Band IV       |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 861.4≤ f       | 854≤ f ≤909    |
|                |              | ≤901.6\        |                |
| (Band V        |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 867.4≤ f       | 860≤ f ≤900    |
|                |              | ≤892.6\        |                |
| (Band VI       |              | (Note 2 and 3) | (Note 3)       |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 2612.4≤ f      | 2605 ≤ f ≤     |
|                |              | ≤2697.6\       | 2705           |
| (Band VII      |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Fuw            | MHz          | 917.4≤ f       | 910 ≤ f ≤ 975  |
|                |              | ≤967.6\        |                |
| (Band VIII     |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 1837.4 ≤ f ≤   | 1829.9 ≤ f ≤   |
|                |              | 1887.4\        | 1894.9         |
| (Band IX       |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 2102.4 ≤ f ≤   | 2095 ≤ f ≤     |
|                |              | 2177.6\        | 2185           |
| (Band X        |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 1468.4 ≤ f ≤   | 1460.9 ≤ f ≤   |
|                |              | 1503.4\        | 1510.9         |
| (Band XI       |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 721.4 ≤ f ≤    | 714 ≤ f ≤ 761  |
|                |              | 753.6\         |                |
| (Band XII      |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 738.4 ≤ f ≤    | 731 ≤ f ≤ 771  |
|                |              | 763.6\         |                |
| (Band XIII     |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 750.4 ≤ f ≤    | 743 ≤ f ≤ 783  |
|                |              | 775.6\         |                |
| (Band XIV      |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 867.4≤ f       | 860≤ f ≤905    |
|                |              | ≤897.6\        |                |
| (Band XIX      |              | (Note 2)       | (Note 3)       |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 1488.4≤ f      | 1480.9≤ f      |
|                |              | ≤1518.4\       | ≤1525.9        |
| (Band XXI      |              | (Note 2)       |                |
| operation)     |              |                | (Note 3)       |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Fuw            | MHz          | 3502.4≤ f      | 3495≤ f ≤3605  |
|                |              | ≤3597.6        |                |
| (Band XXII     |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              | (Note 2)       |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 1922.4≤ f      | 1915≤ f ≤2010  |
|                |              | ≤2002.6        |                |
| (Band XXV      |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 851.4≤ f       | 844≤ f ≤909    |
|                |              | ≤901.6         |                |
| (Band XXVI     |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| UE transmitted | dBm          | 20 (for Power  |                |
| mean power     |              | class 3 and    |                |
|                |              | 3bis)          |                |
|                |              |                |                |
|                |              | 18 (for Power  |                |
|                |              | class 4)       |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+

NOTE 1: I~blocking~ (modulated) consists of the common channels needed
for tests as specified in Table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data channels as
specified in Table E.3.6.

NOTE 2: For each carrier frequency the requirement is valid for two
frequencies, the carrier frequency +/- 10 MHz.

NOTE 3: For Band VI, Band XIX and Band XXI, the unwanted interfering
signal does not fall inside the UE receive band, but within the first 15
MHz below or above the UE receive band.

NOTE 4: Negative offsets refer to the assigned channel frequency of the
lowest carrier frequency used and positive offsets refer to the assigned
channel frequency of the highest carrier frequency used.

NOTE 5: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the
HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
Table 6.2A.1.

Table 6.5A.6: Test parameters for Out of band blocking characteristics
for DC-HSDPA

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| P        | Unit     | F        | F        | F        | F        |
| arameter |          | requency | requency | requency | requency |
|          |          | range 1  | range 2  | range 3  | range 4  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| HS-P     | dBm /    | \<REF    | \<REF    | \<REF    | \<R      |
| DSCH\_Ec | 3.84 MHz | SENS\>+3 | SENS\>+3 | SENS\>+3 | EFSENS\> |
|          |          | dB       | dB       | dB       | +3 dB    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Î~or~    | dBm /    | \<RE     | \<RE     | \<RE     | \<RE     |
|          | 3.84 MHz | FÎ~or~\> | FÎ~or~\> | FÎ~or~\> | FÎ~or~\> |
|          |          | + 3 dB   | + 3 dB   | + 3 dB   | + 3 dB   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I~b      | dBm      | -44      | -30      | -15      | -15      |
| locking~ |          |          |          |          |          |
| (CW)     |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 2050\<f  | 2025 \<f | 1\< f    | \-       |
|          |          | \<2095   | ≤2050    | ≤2025    |          |
| (Band I  |          |          |          |          |          |
| op       |          | 2185\<f  | 2230 ≤f  | 2255≤    |          |
| eration) |          | \<2230   | \<2255   | f\<12750 |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1870\<f  | 1845 \<f | 1\< f    | 1850 ≤ f |
|          |          | \<1915   | ≤1870    | ≤1845    | ≤ 1910   |
| (Band II |          |          |          |          |          |
| op       |          | 2005\<f  | 2050 ≤f  | 2075≤    |          |
| eration) |          | \<2050   | \<2075   | f\<12750 |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1745 \<f | 1720 \<f | 1\< f    | \-       |
|          |          | \<1790   | ≤ 1745   | ≤1720    |          |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| III      |          | 1895\<f  | 1940≤f   | 1965≤    |          |
| op       |          | \<1940   | \< 1965  | f\<12750 |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 2050\< f | 2025\< f | 1\< f    | \-       |
|          |          | \<2095   | ≤2050    | ≤2025    |          |
| (Band IV |          |          |          |          |          |
| op       |          | 2170\< f | 2215≤ f  | 2240≤    |          |
| eration) |          | \<2215   | \< 2240  | f\<12750 |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 809\< f  | 784\< f  | 1\< f    | 824 ≤ f  |
|          |          | \<854    | ≤809     | ≤784     | ≤ 849    |
| (Band V  |          |          |          |          |          |
| op       |          | 909\< f  | 954≤ f   | 979≤     |          |
| eration) |          | \<954    | \< 979   | f\<12750 |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 815 \< f | 790 \< f | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | \< 860   | ≤ 815    | 790      |          |
| (Band VI |          |          |          |          |          |
| op       |          | 900 \< f | 945 ≤ f  | 970 ≤ f  |          |
| eration) |          | \< 945   | \< 970   | \< 12750 |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 2570 \<  | na       | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | f \<     |          | 2570     |          |
| (Band    |          | 2605     | 2750 ≤ f |          |          |
| VII      |          |          | \< 2775  | 2775 ≤ f |          |
| op       |          | 2705 \<  |          | \< 12750 |          |
| eration) |          | f \<     |          |          |          |
|          |          | 2750     |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 865 \< f | 840 \< f | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | \< 910   | ≤ 865    | 840      |          |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| VIII     |          | 975 \< f | 1020 ≤ f | 1045 ≤ f |          |
| op       |          | \< 1020  | \< 1045  | \< 12750 |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1785 \<  | 1760 \<  | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | f \<     | f ≤ 1785 | 1760     |          |
| (Band IX |          | 1830     |          |          |          |
| op       |          |          | 1940 ≤ f | 1965 ≤ f |          |
| eration) |          | 1895 \<  | \< 1965  | \< 12750 |          |
|          |          | f \<     |          |          |          |
|          |          | 1940     |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 2050 \<  | 2025 \<  | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | f \<     | f ≤ 2050 | 2025     |          |
| (Band X  |          | 2095     |          |          |          |
| op       |          |          | 2230 ≤ f | 2255     |          |
| eration) |          | 2185 \<  | \< 2255  | ≤f\<     |          |
|          |          | f \<     |          | 12750    |          |
|          |          | 2230     |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1416 \<  | 1391 \<  | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | f \<     | f ≤ 1416 | 1391     |          |
| (Band XI |          | 1461     |          |          |          |
| op       |          |          | 1556 ≤ f | 1581 ≤ f |          |
| eration) |          | 1511 \<  | \< 1581  | \< 12750 |          |
|          |          | f \<     |          |          |          |
|          |          | 1556     |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 669 \< f | 644 \< f | 1 \< f ≤ | 699 ≤ f  |
|          |          | \< 714   | ≤ 669    | 644      | ≤ 716    |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| XII      |          | 761 \< f | 806 ≤ f  | 831 ≤f\< |          |
| op       |          | \< 806   | \< 831   | 12750    |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 686 \< f | 661 \< f | 1 \< f ≤ | 776 ≤ f  |
|          |          | \< 731   | ≤ 686    | 661      | ≤ 788    |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| XIII     |          | 771 \< f | 816 ≤ f  | 841 ≤f\< |          |
| op       |          | \< 816   | \< 841   | 12750    |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 698 \< f | 673 \< f | 1 \< f ≤ | 788 ≤ f  |
|          |          | \< 743   | ≤ 698    | 673      | ≤ 798    |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| XIV      |          | 783 \< f | 828 ≤ f  | 853 ≤f\< |          |
| op       |          | \< 828   | \< 853   | 12750    |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 815 \< f | 790 \< f | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | \< 860   | ≤ 815    | 790      |          |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| XIX      |          | 905 \< f | 950 ≤ f  | 975 ≤ f  |          |
| op       |          | \< 950   | \< 975   | \< 12750 |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 731\< f  | 706 \< f | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | \<776    | ≤ 731    | 706      |          |
| (Band XX |          |          |          |          |          |
| op       |          | 836\< f  | 881 ≤ f  | 906 ≤ f  |          |
| eration) |          | \<881    | \< 906   | \< 12750 |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1436 \<  | 1411 \<  | 1 \< f ≤ | \-       |
|          |          | f \<     | f ≤ 1436 | 1411     |          |
| (Band    |          | 1481     |          |          |          |
| XXI      |          |          | 1571 ≤ f | 1596 ≤ f |          |
| op       |          | 1526 \<  | \< 1596  | \< 12750 |          |
| eration) |          | f \<     |          |          |          |
|          |          | 1571     |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1870\<f  | 1845 \<f | 1\< f    | 1850 ≤ f |
|          |          | \<1915   | ≤1870    | ≤1845    | ≤ 1915   |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| XXV      |          | 2010\<f  | 2055 ≤f  | 2080≤    |          |
| op       |          | \<2055   | \<2080   | f\<12750 |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 799\< f  | 774 \< f | 1\< f    | 814 ≤ f  |
|          |          | \<844    | ≤799     | ≤774     | ≤ 849    |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| XXVI     |          | 909\< f  | 954 ≤ f  | 979 ≤ f  |          |
| op       |          | \<954    | \< 979   | \< 12750 |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 3450 \<  | 3425 \<  | 1\< f    | \-       |
|          |          | f \<3495 | f ≤ 3450 | ≤3425    |          |
| (Band    |          |          |          |          |          |
| XXII     |          | 3605\< f | 3650≤ f  | 3675≤ f  |          |
| op       |          | \<3650   | \< 3675  | \<12750  |          |
| eration) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| UE       | dBm      | 20 (for  |          |          |          |
| tra      |          | Power    |          |          |          |
| nsmitted |          | class 3  |          |          |          |
| mean     |          | and      |          |          |          |
| power    |          | 3bis)    |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          | 18 (for  |          |          |          |
|          |          | Power    |          |          |          |
|          |          | class 4) |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band I   | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| peration | ≤2185    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band II  | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 1915≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| peration | ≤2005    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band III | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 1790≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| peration | ≤1895    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band IV  | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 209      |          |          |          |          |
| peration | 5≤f≤2170 |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band V   | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 8        |          |          |          |          |
| peration | 54≤f≤909 |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band VI  | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 8        |          |          |          |          |
| peration | 60≤f≤900 |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band VII | For 2605 |          |          |          |          |
| o        | ≤ f ≤    |          |          |          |          |
| peration | 2705     |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band     | For 910  |          |          |          |          |
| VIII     | ≤ f ≤    |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 975 MHz, |          |          |          |          |
| peration | the      |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band IX  | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 1830≤f≤  |          |          |          |          |
| peration | 1895     |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band X   | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| peration | ≤2185    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band XI  | For      |          |          |          |          |
|          | 1461≤f≤  |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 1516     |          |          |          |          |
| peration | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band XII | For 714  |          |          |          |          |
|          | ≤ f ≤    |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 761 MHz, |          |          |          |          |
| peration | the      |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band     | For 731  |          |          |          |          |
| XIII     | ≤ f ≤    |          |          |          |          |
|          | 771 MHz, |          |          |          |          |
| o        | the      |          |          |          |          |
| peration | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band XIV | For 743  |          |          |          |          |
|          | ≤ f ≤    |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 783 MHz, |          |          |          |          |
| peration | the      |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band XIX | For      |          |          |          |          |
|          | 8        |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 60≤f≤905 |          |          |          |          |
| peration | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band XXI | For      |          |          |          |          |
|          | 1481≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| o        | ≤1526    |          |          |          |          |
| peration | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band     | For      |          |          |          |          |
| XXII     | 3495≤ f  |          |          |          |          |
| o        | ≤3605    |          |          |          |          |
| peration | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band XXV | For      |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 1915≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| peration | ≤2010    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied  |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Band     | For      |          |          |          |          |
| XXVI     | 8        |          |          |          |          |
| o        | 44≤f≤909 |          |          |          |          |
| peration | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4A.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.2.1  |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE     | For the  |          |          |          |          |
|          | UE which |          |          |          |          |
|          | supports |          |          |          |          |
|          | both     |          |          |          |          |
|          | Band XI  |          |          |          |          |
|          | and Band |          |          |          |          |
|          | XXI      |          |          |          |          |
|          | o        |          |          |          |          |
|          | perating |          |          |          |          |
|          | freq     |          |          |          |          |
|          | uencies, |          |          |          |          |
|          | the Out  |          |          |          |          |
|          | of band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | is FFS.  |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

NOTE 6: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the
HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
Table 6.2A.1

Table 6.5A.7: Test parameters for narrow band blocking for DC-HSDPA

+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Parameter      | Unit         | Band II, IV,   | Band III,      |
|                |              | V, X, XXV,     | VIII, XII,     |
|                |              | XXVI           | XIII, XIV      |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-PDSCH\_Ec   | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFSENS\> +  | \<REFSENS\> +  |
|                |              | 10 dB          | 10 dB          |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Î~or~          | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFÎ~or~\> + | \<REFÎ~or~\> + |
|                |              | 10 dB          | 10 dB          |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| I~blocking~    | dBm          | -57            | -56            |
| (GMSK)         |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~ (offset) | MHz          | ±2.7           | ±2.8           |
|                |              |                |                |
| (NOTE 2)       |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| UE transmitted | dBm          | 20 (for Power  |                |
| mean power     |              | class 3 and    |                |
|                |              | 3bis)          |                |
|                |              |                |                |
|                |              | 18 (for Power  |                |
|                |              | class 4)       |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+

NOTE 7: I~blocking~ (GMSK) is an interfering signal as defined in TS
45.004.

NOTE 8: Negative offsets refer to the assigned channel frequency of the
lowest carrier frequency used and positive offsets refer to the assigned
channel frequency of the highest carrier frequency used.

NOTE 9: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the
HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
Table 6.2A.1.

NOTE 10: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

6.5B Blocking Characteristics for DB-DC-HSDPA
---------------------------------------------

### 6.5B.1 Definition and applicability

The blocking characteristic is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to
receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency in the
presence of an unwanted interferer on frequencies other than those of
the spurious response or the adjacent channels, without this unwanted
input signal causing a degradation of the performance of the receiver
beyond a specified limit. The blocking performance shall apply at all
frequencies except those at which a spurious response occur.

The requirements in this test apply for Release 9 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support DB-DC-HSDPA.

DB-DC-HSDPA is designed to operate in configurations specified in clause
4.2.

### 6.5B.2 Minimum Requirements

#### 6.5B.2.1 Minimum Requirements (In-band blocking)

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.5B.1. In-band blocking is defined for an
unwanted interfering signal falling into the UE receive band or into the
first 15 MHz below or above the UE receive band.

Table 6.5B.1: In-band blocking for DB-DC-HSDPA

+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Parameter      | Unit         | Level          |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-PDSCH\_Ec   | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFSENS\>+3  |                |
|                |              | dB             |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Î~or~          | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFÎ~or~\> + |                |
|                |              | 3 dB           |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| I~blocking~    | dBm          | -56            | -44            |
| mean power     |              |                |                |
| (modulated)    |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~ offset   |              | =±10 MHz       | ≤-15 MHz       |
|                |              |                |                |
| (NOTE 4)       |              |                | &              |
|                |              |                |                |
|                |              |                | ≥15 MHz        |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 2102.4≤ f      | 2095≤ f ≤2185  |
|                |              | ≤2177.6        |                |
| (Band I        |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 1922.4≤ f      | 1915≤ f ≤2005  |
|                |              | ≤1997.6        |                |
| (Band II       |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 1797.4≤ f      | 1790≤ f ≤1895  |
|                |              | ≤1887.6        |                |
| (Band III      |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 2102.4≤ f      | 2095≤ f ≤2170  |
|                |              | ≤2162.6        |                |
| (Band IV       |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 861.4≤ f       | 854≤ f ≤909    |
|                |              | ≤901.6         |                |
| (Band V        |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 867.4≤ f       | 860≤ f ≤900    |
|                |              | ≤892.6\        |                |
| (Band VI       |              | (Note3)        | (Note 3)       |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 2612.4≤ f      | 2605 ≤ f ≤     |
|                |              | ≤2697.6        | 2705           |
| (Band VII      |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Fuw            | MHz          | 917.4≤ f       | 910 ≤ f ≤ 975  |
|                |              | ≤967.6         |                |
| (Band VIII     |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 1837.4 ≤ f ≤   | 1829.9 ≤ f ≤   |
|                |              | 1887.4         | 1894.9         |
| (Band IX       |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 2102.4 ≤ f ≤   | 2095 ≤ f ≤     |
|                |              | 2177.6         | 2185           |
| (Band X        |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 1468.4 ≤ f ≤   | 1460.9 ≤ f ≤   |
|                |              | 1503.4         | 1510.9         |
| (Band XI       |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 721.4 ≤ f ≤    | 714 ≤ f ≤ 761  |
|                |              | 753.6          |                |
| (Band XII      |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 738.4 ≤ f ≤    | 731 ≤ f ≤ 771  |
|                |              | 763.6          |                |
| (Band XIII     |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 750.4 ≤ f ≤    | 743 ≤ f ≤ 783  |
|                |              | 775.6          |                |
| (Band XIV      |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 867.4≤ f       | 860≤ f ≤905    |
|                |              | ≤897.6         |                |
| (Band XIX      |              |                | (Note 3)       |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 783.4 ≤ f ≤    | 776 ≤ f ≤ 836  |
|                |              | 828.6          |                |
| (Band XX       |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 1488.4≤ f      | 1480.9≤ f      |
|                |              | ≤1518.4        | ≤1525.9        |
| (Band XXI      |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              |                | (Note 3)       |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 3502.4≤ f      | 3495≤ f ≤3605  |
|                |              | ≤3597.6        |                |
| (Band XXII     |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 1922.4≤ f      | 1915≤ f ≤2010  |
|                |              | ≤2002.6        |                |
| (Band XXV      |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~          | MHz          | 851.4≤ f       | 844≤ f ≤909    |
|                |              | ≤901.6         |                |
| (Band XXVI     |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Fuw            | MHz          | 1444.4≤ f      | 1437≤ f ≤1511  |
|                |              | ≤1503.6        |                |
| (Band XXXII    |              |                |                |
| operation)     |              |                |                |
|                |              |                |                |
| (NOTE 6)       |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| UE transmitted | dBm          | 20 (for Power  |                |
| mean power     |              | class 3 and    |                |
|                |              | 3bis)          |                |
|                |              |                |                |
|                |              | 18 (for Power  |                |
|                |              | class 4)       |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| NOTE 1:        |              |                |                |
| I~blocking~    |              |                |                |
| (modulated)    |              |                |                |
| consists of    |              |                |                |
| the common     |              |                |                |
| channels       |              |                |                |
| needed for     |              |                |                |
| tests as       |              |                |                |
| specified in   |              |                |                |
| Table E.4.1    |              |                |                |
| and 16         |              |                |                |
| dedicated data |              |                |                |
| channels as    |              |                |                |
| specified in   |              |                |                |
| Table E.3.6.   |              |                |                |
|                |              |                |                |
| NOTE 2: For    |              |                |                |
| Band VI, Band  |              |                |                |
| XIX and Band   |              |                |                |
| XXI, the       |              |                |                |
| unwanted       |              |                |                |
| interfering    |              |                |                |
| signal does    |              |                |                |
| not fall       |              |                |                |
| inside the UE  |              |                |                |
| receive band,  |              |                |                |
| but within the |              |                |                |
| first 15 MHz   |              |                |                |
| below or above |              |                |                |
| the UE receive |              |                |                |
| band.          |              |                |                |
|                |              |                |                |
| NOTE 3: For    |              |                |                |
| DC-HSDPA,      |              |                |                |
| negative       |              |                |                |
| offset refers  |              |                |                |
| to the         |              |                |                |
| assigned       |              |                |                |
| channel        |              |                |                |
| frequency of   |              |                |                |
| the lowest     |              |                |                |
| carrier        |              |                |                |
| frequency used |              |                |                |
| and positive   |              |                |                |
| offset refers  |              |                |                |
| to the         |              |                |                |
| assigned       |              |                |                |
| channel        |              |                |                |
| frequency of   |              |                |                |
| the highest    |              |                |                |
| carrier        |              |                |                |
| frequency      |              |                |                |
| used. For      |              |                |                |
| DB-DC-HSDPA,   |              |                |                |
| offset refers  |              |                |                |
| to the         |              |                |                |
| assigned       |              |                |                |
| channel        |              |                |                |
| frequencies of |              |                |                |
| the individual |              |                |                |
| cells.         |              |                |                |
|                |              |                |                |
| NOTE 4:        |              |                |                |
| \<REFSENS\>    |              |                |                |
| and            |              |                |                |
| \<REFÎ~or~\>   |              |                |                |
| refer to the   |              |                |                |
| HS-PDSCH\      |              |                |                |
| _Ec\<REFSENS\> |              |                |                |
| and the        |              |                |                |
| HS-PDS         |              |                |                |
| CH\<REFÎ~or~\> |              |                |                |
| as specified   |              |                |                |
| in Table       |              |                |                |
| 6.2A.1 for     |              |                |                |
| DC-HSDPA and   |              |                |                |
| Table 6.2B.1   |              |                |                |
| for            |              |                |                |
| DB-DC-HSDPA.   |              |                |                |
|                |              |                |                |
| NOTE 5: The UE |              |                |                |
| transmitted    |              |                |                |
| mean power     |              |                |                |
| shall be       |              |                |                |
| reduced by     |              |                |                |
| 0.5dB for a UE |              |                |                |
| operating in   |              |                |                |
| band XXII.     |              |                |                |
|                |              |                |                |
| NOTE 6:        |              |                |                |
| Restricted to  |              |                |                |
| UTRA operation |              |                |                |
| when dual band |              |                |                |
| is configured  |              |                |                |
| (e.g.,         |              |                |                |
| DB-DC-HSDPA or |              |                |                |
| dual band      |              |                |                |
| 4C-HSDPA)      |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.6.1A.

#### 6.5B.2.2 Minimum requirements (Out of-band blocking)

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.5B.2. Out-of-band blocking is defined
for an unwanted interfering signal falling at frequencies outside of
frequency regions defined as the UE receive bands extended by 15 MHz at
their lower and upper ends. For Table 6.5B.2 in frequency range 1, 2 and
3, up to 24 exceptions per received cell are allowed for spurious
response frequencies in each assigned frequency channel when measured
using a 1 MHz step size. For these exceptions the requirements of clause
6.6B Spurious response are applicable.

For Table 6.5B.2 in frequency range 4, up to 8 exceptions per received
cell are allowed for spurious response frequencies in each assigned
frequency channel when measured using a 1 MHz step size. For these
exceptions the requirements of clause 6.6B Spurious response for
DB-DC-HSDPA are applicable.

Table 6.5B.2: Out of band blocking for DB-DC-HSDPA

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| P        | Unit     | F        | F        | F        | F        |
| arameter |          | requency | requency | requency | requency |
|          |          | range 1  | range 2  | range 3  | range 4  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| HS-P     | dBm /    | \<REF    | \<REF    | \<REF    | \<R      |
| DSCH\_Ec | 3.84 MHz | SENS\>+3 | SENS\>+3 | SENS\>+3 | EFSENS\> |
|          |          | dB       | dB       | dB       | +3 dB    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Î~or~    | dBm /    | \<RE     | \<RE     | \<RE     | \<RE     |
|          | 3.84 MHz | FÎ~or~\> | FÎ~or~\> | FÎ~or~\> | FÎ~or~\> |
|          |          | + 3 dB   | + 3 dB   | + 3 dB   | + 3 dB   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I~b      | dBm      | -44      | -30      | -15      | -15      |
| locking~ |          |          |          |          |          |
| (CW)     |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 865\< f  | 840\< f  | 1\< f    | \-       |
|          |          | \<910    | ≤865     | ≤840     |          |
| (DB-     |          |          |          |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA |          | 975\< f  | 1020≤ f  | 1045≤ f  |          |
| Confi    |          | \<1020   | \<1045   | \<2025   |          |
| guration |          |          |          |          |          |
| 1)       |          | 2050\< f | 2025\< f | 2255\< f |          |
|          |          | \<2095   | ≤2050    | ≤ 12750  |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          | 2185\< f | 2230≤ f  |          |          |
|          |          | \<2230   | \<2255   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1870\< f | 1845\< f | 1\< f    | 1850≤ f  |
|          |          | \<1915   | ≤1870    | ≤1845    | ≤1910    |
| (DB-     |          |          |          |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA |          | 2005\< f | 2215≤ f  | 2240≤ f  |          |
| Confi    |          | \<2095   | \<2240   | \<12750  |          |
| guration |          |          |          |          |          |
| 2)       |          | 2170\< f |          |          |          |
|          |          | \<2215   |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 809\< f  | 784\< f  | 1\< f    | 824 ≤ f  |
|          |          | \<854    | ≤809     | ≤784     | ≤ 849    |
| (DB-     |          |          |          |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA |          | 909\< f  | 954≤ f   | 979≤ f   |          |
| Confi    |          | \<954    | \< 979   | \<2025   |          |
| guration |          |          |          |          |          |
| 3)       |          | 2050\< f | 2025\< f | 2255\< f |          |
|          |          | \<2095   | ≤2050    | ≤12750   |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          | 2185\< f | 2230≤ f  |          |          |
|          |          | \<2230   | \<2255   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1392\< f | 1367\< f | 1\< f    | \-       |
|          |          | \<1437   | ≤1392    | ≤1367    |          |
| (DB-     |          |          |          |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA |          | 1511\< f | 1556≤ f  | 1581≤ f  |          |
| Confi    |          | \<1556   | \<1581   | \<2025   |          |
| guration |          |          |          |          |          |
| 6)       |          | 2050\< f | 2025\< f | 2255\< f |          |
|          |          | \<2095   | ≤2050    | ≤ 12750  |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          | 2185\< f | 2230≤ f  |          |          |
|          |          | \<2230   | \<2255   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| UE       | dBm      | 20 (for  |          |          |          |
| tra      |          | Power    |          |          |          |
| nsmitted |          | class 3  |          |          |          |
| mean     |          | and      |          |          |          |
| power    |          | 3bis)    |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          | 18 (for  |          |          |          |
|          |          | Power    |          |          |          |
|          |          | class 4) |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| DB-      | For      |          |          |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA | 910≤f    |          |          |          |          |
| Confi    | ≤975 MHz |          |          |          |          |
| guration | and      |          |          |          |          |
| 1        | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
|          | ≤2185    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4C.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.B2.1 |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| DB-      | For      |          |          |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA | 1915≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| Confi    | ≤2005    |          |          |          |          |
| guration | MHz and  |          |          |          |          |
| 2        | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
|          | ≤2070    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4C.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.B2.1 |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| DB-      | For      |          |          |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA | 8        |          |          |          |          |
| Confi    | 54≤f≤909 |          |          |          |          |
| guration | MHz and  |          |          |          |          |
| 3        | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
|          | ≤2185    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4C.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5.B2.1 |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| DB-      | For      |          |          |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA | 1437≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| Confi    | ≤1511    |          |          |          |          |
| guration | MHz and  |          |          |          |          |
| 6        | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
|          | ≤2185    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 7.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 7.6.1A   |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE:    |          |          |          |          |          |
| \<R      |          |          |          |          |          |
| EFSENS\> |          |          |          |          |          |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |
| \<RE     |          |          |          |          |          |
| FÎ~or~\> |          |          |          |          |          |
| refer to |          |          |          |          |          |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |
| HS-PDSC  |          |          |          |          |          |
| H\_Ec\<R |          |          |          |          |          |
| EFSENS\> |          |          |          |          |          |
| and the  |          |          |          |          |          |
| HS-P     |          |          |          |          |          |
| DSCH\<RE |          |          |          |          |          |
| FÎ~or~\> |          |          |          |          |          |
| as       |          |          |          |          |          |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |
| pecified |          |          |          |          |          |
| in Table |          |          |          |          |          |
| 6.2B.1.  |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.6.2B.

#### 6.5B.2.3 Minimum requirements (Narrow band blocking)

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.5B.3. This requirement is measure of a
receiver's ability to receive a W-CDMA signal at its assigned channel
frequency in the presence of an unwanted narrow band interferer at a
frequency, which is less than the nominal channel spacing.

Table 6.5B.3: Narrow band blocking characteristics for DB-DC-HSDPA

+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Parameter      | Unit         | Band II, IV,   | Band III,      |
|                |              | V, X, XXV,     | VIII, XII,     |
|                |              | XXVI           | XIII, XIV      |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-PDSCH\_Ec   | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFSENS\> +  | \<REFSENS\> +  |
|                |              | 10 dB          | 10 dB          |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Î~or~          | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFÎ~or~\> + | \<REFÎ~or~\> + |
|                |              | 10 dB          | 10 dB          |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| I~blocking~    | dBm          | -57            | -56            |
| (GMSK)         |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~ (offset) | MHz          | ±2.7           | ±2.8           |
|                |              |                |                |
| (NOTE 2)       |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| UE transmitted | dBm          | 20 (for Power  |                |
| mean power     |              | class 3 and    |                |
|                |              | 3bis)          |                |
|                |              |                |                |
|                |              | 18 (for Power  |                |
|                |              | class 4)       |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+

NOTE 1: I~blocking~ (GMSK) is an interfering signal as defined in TS
45.004.

NOTE 2: For DC-HSDPA, negative offset refers to the assigned channel
frequency of the lowest carrier frequency used and positive offset
refers to the assigned channel frequency of the highest carrier
frequency used. For DB-DC-HSDPA, offset refers to the assigned channel
frequencies of the individual cells.

NOTE 3: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the
HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
Table 6.2B.1.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.6.3A.

### 6.5B.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BLER of HS-PDSCH on each individual cell does not
exceed 0.1 for the parameters specified in table 6.5B.5, table 6.5B.6
and table 6.5B.7 for the DL reference channel H-Set 12 specified in
Annex C.8.1.12.

The lack of the blocking ability decreases the DB-DC-HSDPA coverage area
when other transmitter exists (except in the adjacent channels and
spurious response).

### 6.5B.4 Method of test

##### 6.5B.4.1 Initial conditions {#b.4.1-initial-conditions-13 .H6}

For in-band case:

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

For out-of-band case:

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequency to be tested: 1 arbitrary frequency chosen from the low, mid
or high range; see clause G.2.4.

For narrow-band case:

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.32.

2\) RF parameters are set up according to table 6.5B.5, table 6.5B.6 and
table 6.5B.7.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure
specified in TS34.108\[3\] sub clause 7.3.13, with exceptions for
information elements listed in Table 6.5B.4. With this exception, the
Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to algorithm 2.

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-test-loop-mode1-12 .H6}

Table 6.5B.4 Specific Message Contents for In-band blocking
characteristics for DB-DC-HSDPA

  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                       Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2         
  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (DC-HSDPA) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-dc-hsdpa-9 .H6}

  ----------------------------------- ------------------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 Value/remark                   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                                   Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                                  
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                            
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2                     
  Downlink HS-PDSCH Information                                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                            
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured        Not Present                    Rel-7
  \- HS-DSCH TB size table            octet aligned (for H-Set 12)   Rel-7
  Downlink secondary cell info FDD                                   Rel-8
  \- CHOICE Configuration info        New configuration              
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured        Not Present                    
  \- HS-DSCH TB size table            octet aligned (for H-Set 12)   
  ----------------------------------- ------------------------------ ---------

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 6.5B.4.2 Procedure {#b.4.2-procedure-13 .H6}

1\) Set the parameters of the CW generator or the interference signal
generator as shown in table 6.5B.5, table 6.5B.6 and table 6.5B.6. For
table 6.5B.6, the frequency step size is 1 MHz.

2\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.5B.5, table
6.5B.6, and table 6.5B.7, or send the power control commands (1dB step
size should be used.) to the UE until UE output power measured by Test
System shall be kept at the specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.

3\) Measure the BLER of HS-PDSCH received from the UE at the SS by
counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the UL HS-DPCCH (BLER =
(NACK + statDTX)/(NACK + statDTX + ACK)).

4\) For table 6.5B.6, record the frequencies for which BLER exceed the
test requirements.

### 6.5B.5 Test requirements

For table 6.5B.5, the measured BLER, derived in step 2), shall not
exceed 0.1 on each individual cell. For table 6.5B.6, the measured BLER,
derived in step 2) shall not exceed 0.1 on each individual cell except
for the spurious response frequencies, recorded in step 3). The number
of spurious response frequencies, recorded in step 3) shall not exceed
24 for frequency range 1, 2 and 3. The number of spurious response
frequencies, recorded in step 3) shall not exceed 8 for frequency range
4 . For table 6.5B.7, the measured BLER, derived in step 2), shall not
exceed 0.1 on each individual cell. The minimum number of measurements
required for a statistically significant result to this test is
clarified in annex F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.0.

Table 6.5B.5: Test parameters for In-band blocking characteristics for
DB-DC-HSDPA

+-----------------+--------------+-----------------+---------------+
| Parameter       | Unit         | Level           |               |
+-----------------+--------------+-----------------+---------------+
| HS-PDSCH\_Ec    | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFSENS\>+3   |               |
|                 |              | dB              |               |
+-----------------+--------------+-----------------+---------------+
| Î~or~           | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFÎ~or~\> +  |               |
|                 |              | 3 dB            |               |
+-----------------+--------------+-----------------+---------------+
| I~blocking~     | dBm          | -56             | -44           |
| mean power      |              |                 |               |
| (modulated)     |              |                 |               |
+-----------------+--------------+-----------------+---------------+
| F~uw~ offset    |              | =±10 MHz        | ≤-15 MHz      |
|                 |              |                 |               |
| (NOTE 3)        |              |                 | &             |
|                 |              |                 |               |
|                 |              |                 | ≥15 MHz       |
+-----------------+--------------+-----------------+---------------+
| F~uw~           | MHz          | 2102.4≤ f       | 2095≤ f ≤2185 |
|                 |              | ≤2177.6\        |               |
| (Band I         |              | (Note 2)        |               |
| operation)      |              |                 |               |
+-----------------+--------------+-----------------+---------------+
| F~uw~           | MHz          | 1922.4≤ f       | 1915≤ f ≤2005 |
|                 |              | ≤1997.6\        |               |
| (Band II        |              | (Note 2)        |               |
| operation)      |              |                 |               |
+-----------------+--------------+-----------------+---------------+
| F~uw~           | MHz          | 2102.4≤ f       | 2095≤ f ≤2170 |
|                 |              | ≤2162.6\        |               |
| (Band IV        |              | (Note 2)        |               |
| operation)      |              |                 |               |
+-----------------+--------------+-----------------+---------------+
| F~uw~           | MHz          | 861.4≤ f        | 854≤ f ≤909   |
|                 |              | ≤901.6\         |               |
| (Band V         |              | (Note 2)        |               |
| operation)      |              |                 |               |
+-----------------+--------------+-----------------+---------------+
| Fuw             | MHz          | 917.4≤ f        | 910 ≤ f ≤ 975 |
|                 |              | ≤967.6\         |               |
| (Band VIII      |              | (Note 2)        |               |
| operation)      |              |                 |               |
+-----------------+--------------+-----------------+---------------+
| Fuw             | MHz          | 1444.4≤ f       | 1437≤ f ≤1511 |
|                 |              | ≤1503.6         |               |
| (Band XXXII     |              |                 |               |
| operation)      |              |                 |               |
|                 |              |                 |               |
| (NOTE 6)        |              |                 |               |
+-----------------+--------------+-----------------+---------------+
| UE transmitted  | dBm          | 20 (for Power   |               |
| mean power      |              | class 3 and     |               |
|                 |              | 3bis)           |               |
|                 |              |                 |               |
|                 |              | 18 (for Power   |               |
|                 |              | class 4)        |               |
+-----------------+--------------+-----------------+---------------+
| NOTE 1:         |              |                 |               |
| I~blocking~     |              |                 |               |
| (modulated)     |              |                 |               |
| consists of the |              |                 |               |
| common channels |              |                 |               |
| needed for      |              |                 |               |
| tests as        |              |                 |               |
| specified in    |              |                 |               |
| Table E.4.1 and |              |                 |               |
| 16 dedicated    |              |                 |               |
| data channels   |              |                 |               |
| as specified in |              |                 |               |
| Table E.3.6.    |              |                 |               |
|                 |              |                 |               |
| NOTE 2: For     |              |                 |               |
| Band VI, Band   |              |                 |               |
| XIX and Band    |              |                 |               |
| XXI, the        |              |                 |               |
| unwanted        |              |                 |               |
| interfering     |              |                 |               |
| signal does not |              |                 |               |
| fall inside the |              |                 |               |
| UE receive      |              |                 |               |
| band, but       |              |                 |               |
| within the      |              |                 |               |
| first 15 MHz    |              |                 |               |
| below or above  |              |                 |               |
| the UE receive  |              |                 |               |
| band.           |              |                 |               |
|                 |              |                 |               |
| NOTE 3: For     |              |                 |               |
| DC-HSDPA,       |              |                 |               |
| negative offset |              |                 |               |
| refers to the   |              |                 |               |
| assigned        |              |                 |               |
| channel         |              |                 |               |
| frequency of    |              |                 |               |
| the lowest      |              |                 |               |
| carrier         |              |                 |               |
| frequency used  |              |                 |               |
| and positive    |              |                 |               |
| offset refers   |              |                 |               |
| to the assigned |              |                 |               |
| channel         |              |                 |               |
| frequency of    |              |                 |               |
| the highest     |              |                 |               |
| carrier         |              |                 |               |
| frequency used. |              |                 |               |
| For             |              |                 |               |
| DB-DC-HSDPA,    |              |                 |               |
| offset refers   |              |                 |               |
| to the assigned |              |                 |               |
| channel         |              |                 |               |
| frequencies of  |              |                 |               |
| the individual  |              |                 |               |
| cells.          |              |                 |               |
|                 |              |                 |               |
| NOTE 4:         |              |                 |               |
| \<REFSENS\> and |              |                 |               |
| \<REFÎ~or~\>    |              |                 |               |
| refer to the    |              |                 |               |
| HS-PDSCH        |              |                 |               |
| \_Ec\<REFSENS\> |              |                 |               |
| and the         |              |                 |               |
| HS-PD           |              |                 |               |
| SCH\<REFÎ~or~\> |              |                 |               |
| as specified in |              |                 |               |
| Table 6.2A.1    |              |                 |               |
| for DC-HSDPA    |              |                 |               |
| and Table       |              |                 |               |
| 6.2B.1 for      |              |                 |               |
| DB-DC-HSDPA.    |              |                 |               |
|                 |              |                 |               |
| NOTE 5: The UE  |              |                 |               |
| transmitted     |              |                 |               |
| mean power      |              |                 |               |
| shall be        |              |                 |               |
| reduced by      |              |                 |               |
| 0.5dB for a UE  |              |                 |               |
| operating in    |              |                 |               |
| band XXII.      |              |                 |               |
|                 |              |                 |               |
| NOTE 6:         |              |                 |               |
| Restricted to   |              |                 |               |
| UTRA operation  |              |                 |               |
| when dual band  |              |                 |               |
| is configured   |              |                 |               |
| (e.g.,          |              |                 |               |
| DB-DC-HSDPA or  |              |                 |               |
| dual band       |              |                 |               |
| 4C-HSDPA)       |              |                 |               |
+-----------------+--------------+-----------------+---------------+

Table 6.5B.6: Test parameters for Out of band blocking characteristics
for DB-DC-HSDPA

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| P        | Unit     | F        | F        | F        | F        |
| arameter |          | requency | requency | requency | requency |
|          |          | range 1  | range 2  | range 3  | range 4  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| HS-P     | dBm /    | \<REF    | \<REF    | \<REF    | \<R      |
| DSCH\_Ec | 3.84 MHz | SENS\>+3 | SENS\>+3 | SENS\>+3 | EFSENS\> |
|          |          | dB       | dB       | dB       | +3 dB    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Î~or~    | dBm /    | \<RE     | \<RE     | \<RE     | \<RE     |
|          | 3.84 MHz | FÎ~or~\> | FÎ~or~\> | FÎ~or~\> | FÎ~or~\> |
|          |          | + 3 dB   | + 3 dB   | + 3 dB   | + 3 dB   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I~b      | dBm      | -44      | -30      | -15      | -15      |
| locking~ |          |          |          |          |          |
| (CW)     |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 865\< f  | 840\< f  | 1\< f    | \-       |
|          |          | \<910    | ≤865     | ≤840     |          |
| (DB-     |          |          |          |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA |          | 975\< f  | 1020≤ f  | 1045≤ f  |          |
| Confi    |          | \<1020   | \<1045   | \<2025   |          |
| guration |          |          |          |          |          |
| 1)       |          | 2050\< f | 2025\< f | 2255\< f |          |
|          |          | \<2095   | ≤2050    | ≤ 12750  |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          | 2185\< f | 2230≤ f  |          |          |
|          |          | \<2230   | \<2255   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1870\< f | 1845\< f | 1\< f    | 1850≤ f  |
|          |          | \<1915   | ≤1870    | ≤1845    | ≤1910    |
| (DB-     |          |          |          |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA |          | 2005\< f | 2215≤ f  | 2240≤ f  |          |
| Confi    |          | \<2095   | \<2240   | \<12750  |          |
| guration |          |          |          |          |          |
| 2)       |          | 2170\< f |          |          |          |
|          |          | \<2215   |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 809\< f  | 784\< f  | 1\< f    | 824 ≤ f  |
|          |          | \<854    | ≤809     | ≤784     | ≤ 849    |
| (DB-     |          |          |          |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA |          | 909\< f  | 954≤ f   | 979≤ f   |          |
| Confi    |          | \<954    | \< 979   | \<2025   |          |
| guration |          |          |          |          |          |
| 3)       |          | 2050\< f | 2025\< f | 2255\< f |          |
|          |          | \<2095   | ≤2050    | ≤12750   |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          | 2185\< f | 2230≤ f  |          |          |
|          |          | \<2230   | \<2255   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1392\< f | 1367\< f | 1\< f    | \-       |
|          |          | \<1437   | ≤1392    | ≤1367    |          |
| (DB-     |          |          |          |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA |          | 1511\< f | 1556≤ f  | 1581≤ f  |          |
| Confi    |          | \<1556   | \<1581   | \<2025   |          |
| guration |          |          |          |          |          |
| 6)       |          | 2050\< f | 2025\< f | 2255\< f |          |
|          |          | \<2095   | ≤2050    | ≤ 12750  |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          | 2185\< f | 2230≤ f  |          |          |
|          |          | \<2230   | \<2255   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| UE       | dBm      | 20 (for  |          |          |          |
| tra      |          | Power    |          |          |          |
| nsmitted |          | class 3  |          |          |          |
| mean     |          | and      |          |          |          |
| power    |          | 3bis)    |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          | 18 (for  |          |          |          |
|          |          | Power    |          |          |          |
|          |          | class 4) |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| DB-      | For      |          |          |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA | 910≤f    |          |          |          |          |
| Confi    | ≤975 MHz |          |          |          |          |
| guration | and      |          |          |          |          |
| 1        | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
|          | ≤2185    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4C.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5B.2.1 |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| DB-      | For      |          |          |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA | 1915≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| Confi    | ≤2005    |          |          |          |          |
| guration | MHz and  |          |          |          |          |
| 2        | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
|          | ≤2070    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | subclau  |          |          |          |          |
|          | se6.4C.2 |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5B.2.1 |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| DB-      | For      |          |          |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA | 8        |          |          |          |          |
| Confi    | 54≤f≤909 |          |          |          |          |
| guration | MHz and  |          |          |          |          |
| 3        | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
|          | ≤2185    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4C.2   |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5B.2.1 |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| DB-      | For      |          |          |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA | 1437≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| Confi    | ≤1511    |          |          |          |          |
| guration | MHz and  |          |          |          |          |
| 6        | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
|          | ≤2185    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 7.5.2    |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 7.6.1A   |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE:    |          |          |          |          |          |
| \<R      |          |          |          |          |          |
| EFSENS\> |          |          |          |          |          |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |
| \<RE     |          |          |          |          |          |
| FÎ~or~\> |          |          |          |          |          |
| refer to |          |          |          |          |          |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |
| HS-PDSC  |          |          |          |          |          |
| H\_Ec\<R |          |          |          |          |          |
| EFSENS\> |          |          |          |          |          |
| and the  |          |          |          |          |          |
| HS-P     |          |          |          |          |          |
| DSCH\<RE |          |          |          |          |          |
| FÎ~or~\> |          |          |          |          |          |
| as       |          |          |          |          |          |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |
| pecified |          |          |          |          |          |
| in Table |          |          |          |          |          |
| 6.2B.1.  |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

Table 6.5B.7: Test parameters for narrow band blocking for DB-DC-HSDPA

+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Parameter      | Unit         | Band II, IV, V | Band VIII      |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-PDSCH\_Ec   | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFSENS\> +  | \<REFSENS\> +  |
|                |              | 10 dB          | 10 dB          |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| Î~or~          | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFÎ~or~\> + | \<REFÎ~or~\> + |
|                |              | 10 dB          | 10 dB          |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| I~blocking~    | dBm          | -57            | -56            |
| (GMSK)         |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| F~uw~ (offset) | MHz          | ±2.7           | ±2.8           |
|                |              |                |                |
| (NOTE 2)       |              |                |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
| UE transmitted | dBm          | 20 (for Power  |                |
| mean power     |              | class 3 and    |                |
|                |              | 3bis)          |                |
|                |              |                |                |
|                |              | 18 (for Power  |                |
|                |              | class 4)       |                |
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+

NOTE 6: I~blocking~ (GMSK) is an interfering signal as defined in TS
45.004.

NOTE 7: Offset refers to the assigned channel frequencies of the
individual cells.

NOTE 8: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the
HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
Table 6.2B.1.

NOTE 9: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

6.5C Blocking Characteristics for DC-HSUPA
------------------------------------------

### 6.5C.1 Definition and applicability

The blocking characteristic is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to
receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency in the
presence of an unwanted interferer on frequencies other than those of
the spurious response or the adjacent channels, without this unwanted
input signal causing a degradation of the performance of the receiver
beyond a specified limit. The blocking performance shall apply at all
frequencies except those at which a spurious response occur.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 9 and later releases
for the FDD UE that supports HSDPA and Dual Cell E-DCH.

### 6.5C.2 Minimum Requirements

#### 6.5C.2.1 Minimum Requirements (In-band blocking)

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.5C.1 and Table 6.5C.2. In-band blocking
is defined for an unwanted interfering signal falling into the UE
receive band or into the first 15 MHz below or above the UE receive
band.

Table 6.5C.1: In-band blocking for DC-HSUPA

+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| Parameter         | Unit | Level             |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| I~blocking~ mean  | dBm  | -56               | -44               |
| power (modulated) |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~ offset      |      | =±10 MHz          | ≤-15 MHz          |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (NOTE 4)          |      |                   | &                 |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
|                   |      |                   | ≥15 MHz           |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 2102.4≤ f ≤2177.6 | 2095≤ f ≤2185     |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band I           |      | (Note 2)          |                   |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 1922.4≤ f ≤1997.6 | 1915≤ f ≤2005     |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band II          |      | (Note 2)          |                   |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 1797.4≤ f ≤1887.6 | 1790≤ f ≤1895     |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band III         |      | (Note 2)          |                   |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 2102.4≤ f ≤2162.6 | 2095≤ f ≤2170     |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band IV          |      | (Note 2)          |                   |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 861.4≤ f ≤901.6   | 854≤ f ≤909       |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band V           |      | (Note 2)          |                   |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 867.4≤ f ≤892.6\  | 860≤ f ≤900       |
|                   |      | (Note3)           |                   |
| (Band VI          |      |                   | (Note 3)          |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 2612.4≤ f ≤2697.6 | 2605 ≤ f ≤ 2705   |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band VII         |      | (Note 2)          |                   |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| Fuw               | MHz  | 917.4≤ f ≤967.6   | 910 ≤ f ≤ 975     |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band VIII        |      | (Note 2)          |                   |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 1837.4 ≤ f ≤      | 1829.9 ≤ f ≤      |
|                   |      | 1887.4            | 1894.9            |
| (Band IX          |      |                   |                   |
| operation)        |      | (Note 2)          |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 2102.4 ≤ f ≤      | 2095 ≤ f ≤ 2185   |
|                   |      | 2177.6            |                   |
| (Band X           |      |                   |                   |
| operation)        |      | (Note 2)          |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 1468.4 ≤ f ≤      | 1460.9 ≤ f ≤      |
|                   |      | 1503.4            | 1510.9            |
| (Band XI          |      |                   |                   |
| operation)        |      | (Note 2)          |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 721.4 ≤ f ≤ 753.6 | 714 ≤ f ≤ 761     |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band XII         |      | (Note 2)          |                   |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 738.4 ≤ f ≤ 763.6 | 731 ≤ f ≤ 771     |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band XIII        |      | (Note 2)          |                   |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 750.4 ≤ f ≤ 775.6 | 743 ≤ f ≤ 783     |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band XIV         |      | (Note 2)          |                   |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 867.4≤ f ≤897.6   | 860≤ f ≤905       |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band XIX         |      | (Note 2)          | (Note 3)          |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 783.4≤ f ≤828.6   | 776≤ f ≤836       |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band XX          |      | (Note 2)          | (Note 3)          |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 1488.4≤ f ≤1518.4 | 1480.9≤ f ≤1525.9 |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band XXI         |      | (Note 2)          | (Note 3)          |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 3502.4≤ f ≤3597.6 | 3495≤ f ≤3605     |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band XXII        |      | (Note 2)          | (Note 3)          |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 1922.4≤ f ≤2002.6 | 1915≤ f ≤2010     |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band XXV         |      | (Note 2)          | (Note 3)          |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 851.4≤ f ≤901.6   | 844≤ f ≤909       |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band XXVI        |      |                   |                   |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| UE transmitted    | dBm  | 20 (for Power     |                   |
| mean power        |      | class 3 and 3bis) |                   |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
|                   |      | 18 (for Power     |                   |
|                   |      | class 4)          |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+

NOTE 1: I~blocking~ (modulated) consists of the common channels needed
for tests as specified in Table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data channels as
specified in Table E.3.6.

NOTE 2: For each carrier frequency the requirement is valid for two
frequencies, the carrier frequency +/- 10 MHz.

NOTE 3: For Band VI, Band XIX and Band XXI, the unwanted interfering
signal does not fall inside the UE receive band, but within the first 15
MHz below or above the UE receive band.

NOTE 4: Negative offsets refer to the assigned channel frequency of the
lowest carrier frequency used and positive offsets refer to the assigned
channel frequency of the highest carrier frequency used.

Table 6.5C.2: Reference input powers for in-band blocking, DC-HSUPA

+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| Operating Band              | Unit         | HS-PDSCH\_Ec | Î~or~ |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| I                           | dBm/3.84 MHz | -110         | -99.7 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| II                          | dBm/3.84 MHz | -108         | -97.7 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| III                         | dBm/3.84 MHz | -107         | -96.7 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| IV                          | dBm/3.84 MHz | -110         | -99.7 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| V                           | dBm/3.84 MHz | -104.3       | -94   |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| VI                          | dBm/3.84 MHz | -104.7       | -94.4 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| VII                         | dBm/3.84 MHz | -108         | -97.7 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| VIII                        | dBm/3.84 MHz | -101.1       | -90.8 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| IX                          | dBm/3.84 MHz | -109         | -98.7 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| X                           | dBm/3.84 MHz | -110         | -99.7 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XI                          | dBm/3.84 MHz | -101.4       | -91.1 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XII                         | dBm/3.84 MHz | N/A          | N/A   |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XIII                        | dBm/3.84 MHz | N/A          | N/A   |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XIV                         | dBm/3.84 MHz | N/A          | N/A   |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XIX                         | dBm/3.84 MHz | -104.7       | -94.4 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XX                          | dBm/3.84 MHz | TBD          | TBD   |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XXI                         | dBm/3.84 MHz | -101.4       | -91.1 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XXII                        | dBm/3.84 MHz | TBD          | TBD   |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XXV                         | dBm/3.84 MHz | -106.5       | -96.2 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XXVI                        | dBm/3.84 MHz | -101.1       | -90.8 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| NOTE 1: For the UE which    |              |              |       |
| supports both Band III and  |              |              |       |
| Band IX operating           |              |              |       |
| frequencies, the reference  |              |              |       |
| sensitivity level of TBD    |              |              |       |
| dBm \<REF\_Ec~,in-band~\>   |              |              |       |
| shall apply for Band IX.    |              |              |       |
| The corresponding           |              |              |       |
| \<REFÎ~or,in-band~\> is TBD |              |              |       |
| dBm                         |              |              |       |
|                             |              |              |       |
| NOTE 2: For the UE which    |              |              |       |
| supports both Band XI and   |              |              |       |
| Band XXI operating          |              |              |       |
| frequencies, the reference  |              |              |       |
| input power level is FFS.   |              |              |       |
|                             |              |              |       |
| NOTE 3: For the UE which    |              |              |       |
| supports DB-DC-HSDPA        |              |              |       |
| configuration in clause 4.2 |              |              |       |
| the \< HS-PDSCH\_Ec \> and  |              |              |       |
| \< Î~or~ \> are allowed to  |              |              |       |
| be increased by an amount   |              |              |       |
| defined in Table 6.1A       |              |              |       |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.6.1B.

#### 6.5C.2.2 Minimum requirements (Narrow band blocking)

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.5C.3 and Table 6.5C.4. This requirement
is measure of a receiver's ability to receive a W-CDMA signal at its
assigned channel frequency in the presence of an unwanted narrow band
interferer at a frequency, which is less than the nominal channel
spacing.

Table 6.5C.3: Narrow band blocking characteristics for DC-HSUPA

+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| Parameter         | Unit | Band II, IV, V,   | Band III, VIII,   |
|                   |      | X, XXV, XXVI      | XII, XIII, XIV    |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| I~blocking~       | dBm  | -57               | -56               |
| (GMSK)            |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~ (offset)    | MHz  | ±2.7              | ±2.8              |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (NOTE 2)          |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| UE transmitted    | dBm  | 20 (for Power     |                   |
| mean power        |      | class 3 and 3bis) |                   |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
|                   |      | 18 (for Power     |                   |
|                   |      | class 4)          |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+

NOTE 1: I~blocking~ (GMSK) is an interfering signal as defined in TS
45.004.

NOTE 2: Negative offsets refer to the assigned channel frequency of the
lowest carrier frequency used and positive offsets refer to the assigned
channel frequency of the highest carrier frequency used.

Table 6.5C.4: Reference input powers for narrow-band blocking, DC-HSUPA

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- -------------- -------
  Operating Band                                                                                                                                                                    Unit           HS-PDSCH\_Ec   Î~or~
  II                                                                                                                                                                                dBm/3.84 MHz   -101           -90.7
  III                                                                                                                                                                               dBm/3.84 MHz   -100           -89.7
  IV                                                                                                                                                                                dBm/3.84 MHz   -102.8         -92.5
  V                                                                                                                                                                                 dBm/3.84 MHz   -100.9         -90.6
  VIII                                                                                                                                                                              dBm/3.84 MHz   -98.5          -88.2
  X                                                                                                                                                                                 dBm/3.84 MHz   -102.8         -92.5
  XII                                                                                                                                                                               dBm/3.84 MHz   N/A            N/A
  XIII                                                                                                                                                                              dBm/3.84 MHz   N/A            N/A
  XIV                                                                                                                                                                               dBm/3.84 MHz   N/A            N/A
  XXV                                                                                                                                                                               dBm/3.84 MHz   -99.5          -89.2
  XXVI                                                                                                                                                                              dBm/3.84 MHz   -98.5          -88.2
  NOTE 1: For the UE which supports DB-DC-HSDPA configuration in clause 4.2 the \< HS‑PDSCH\_Ec \> and \< Î~or~ \> are allowed to be increased by an amount defined in Table 6.1A                                 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- -------------- -------

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.6.3B.

### 6.5C.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BLER of HS-PDSCH on each individual cell does not
exceed 0.1 for the parameters specified in table 6.5C.6, table 6.5C.7,
table 6.5C.8 and table 6.5C.9 for the DL reference channel H-Set 12
specified in Annex C.8.1.12.

The lack of the blocking ability decreases the DC-HSUPA coverage area
when other transmitter exists (except in the adjacent channels and
spurious response).

### 6.5C.4 Method of test

##### 6.5C.4.1 Initial conditions {#c.4.1-initial-conditions-13 .H6}

For in-band case:

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

For out-of-band case:

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequency to be tested: 1 arbitrary frequency chosen from the low, mid
or high range; see clause G.2.4.

For narrow-band case:

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.43.

2\) RF parameters are set up according to table 6.5C.6, table 6.5C.7,
table 6.5C.8 and table 6.5C.9.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure
specified in TS34.108\[3\] sub clause 7.3.14, with exceptions for
information elements listed in Table 6.5C.5. With this exception, the
Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to algorithm 2.

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-test-loop-mode1-13 .H6}

Table 6.5C.5 Specific Message Contents for In-band blocking
characteristics for DC-HSUPA

  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                       Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2         
  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (DC-HSDPA) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-dc-hsdpa-10 .H6}

  ----------------------------------- ------------------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 Value/remark                   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                                   Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                                  
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                            
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2                     
  Downlink HS-PDSCH Information                                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                            
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured        Not Present                    Rel-7
  \- HS-DSCH TB size table            octet aligned (for H-Set 12)   Rel-7
  Downlink secondary cell info FDD                                   Rel-8
  \- CHOICE Configuration info        New configuration              
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured        Not Present                    
  \- HS-DSCH TB size table            octet aligned (for H-Set 12)   
  ----------------------------------- ------------------------------ ---------

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 6.5C.4.2 Procedure {#c.4.2-procedure-13 .H6}

1\) Set the parameters of the CW generator or the interference signal
generator as shown in table 6.5C.6 and table 6.5C.8.

2\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.5C.6, table
6.5C.7, table 6.5C.8 and table 6.5C.9 or send the power control commands
(1dB step size should be used.) to the UE until UE output power measured
by Test System shall be kept at the specified power level with ±1dB
tolerance.

3\) Measure the BLER of HS-PDSCH received from the UE at the SS by
counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the UL HS-DPCCH (BLER =
(NACK + statDTX)/(NACK + statDTX + ACK)).

### 6.5C.5 Test requirements

For table 6.5C.6, the measured BLER, derived in step 2), shall not
exceed 0.1 on each individual cell. For table 6.5C.8, the measured BLER,
derived in step 2), shall not exceed 0.1 on each individual cell. The
minimum number of measurements required for a statistically significant
result to this test is clarified in annex F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.0.

Table 6.5C.6: Test parameters for In-band blocking characteristics for
DC-HSUPA

+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| Parameter         | Unit | Level             |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| I~blocking~ mean  | dBm  | -56               | -44               |
| power (modulated) |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~ offset      |      | =±10 MHz          | ≤-15 MHz          |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (NOTE 4)          |      |                   | &                 |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
|                   |      |                   | ≥15 MHz           |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 2102.4≤ f ≤2177.6 | 2095≤ f ≤2185     |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band I           |      | (Note 2)          |                   |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 1922.4≤ f ≤1997.6 | 1915≤ f ≤2005     |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band II          |      | (Note 2)          |                   |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 1797.4≤ f ≤1887.6 | 1790≤ f ≤1895     |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band III         |      | (Note 2)          |                   |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 2102.4≤ f ≤2162.6 | 2095≤ f ≤2170     |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band IV          |      | (Note 2)          |                   |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 861.4≤ f ≤901.6   | 854≤ f ≤909       |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band V           |      | (Note 2)          |                   |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 867.4≤ f ≤892.6\  | 860≤ f ≤900       |
|                   |      | (Note 3)          |                   |
| (Band VI          |      |                   | (Note 3)          |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 2612.4≤ f ≤2697.6 | 2605 ≤ f ≤ 2705   |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band VII         |      | (Note 2)          |                   |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| Fuw               | MHz  | 917.4≤ f ≤967.6   | 910 ≤ f ≤ 975     |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band VIII        |      | (Note 2)          |                   |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 1837.4 ≤ f ≤      | 1829.9 ≤ f ≤      |
|                   |      | 1887.4            | 1894.9            |
| (Band IX          |      |                   |                   |
| operation)        |      | (Note 2)          |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 2102.4 ≤ f ≤      | 2095 ≤ f ≤ 2185   |
|                   |      | 2177.6            |                   |
| (Band X           |      |                   |                   |
| operation)        |      | (Note 2)          |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 1468.4 ≤ f ≤      | 1460.9 ≤ f ≤      |
|                   |      | 1503.4            | 1510.9            |
| (Band XI          |      |                   |                   |
| operation)        |      | (Note 2)          |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 721.4 ≤ f ≤ 753.6 | 714 ≤ f ≤ 761     |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band XII         |      | (Note 2)          |                   |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 738.4 ≤ f ≤ 763.6 | 731 ≤ f ≤ 771     |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band XIII        |      | (Note 2)          |                   |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 750.4 ≤ f ≤ 775.6 | 743 ≤ f ≤ 783     |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band XIV         |      | (Note 2)          |                   |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 867.4≤ f ≤897.6   | 860≤ f ≤905       |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band XIX         |      | (Note 2)          | (Note 3)          |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 783.4≤ f ≤828.6   | 776≤ f ≤836       |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band XX          |      | (Note 2)          | (Note 3)          |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 1488.4≤ f ≤1518.4 | 1480.9≤ f ≤1525.9 |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band XXI         |      | (Note 2)          | (Note 3)          |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 3502.4≤ f ≤3597.6 | 3495≤ f ≤3605     |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band XXII        |      | (Note 2)          | (Note 3)          |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 1922.4≤ f ≤2002.6 | 1915≤ f ≤2010     |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band XXV         |      | (Note 2)          | (Note 3)          |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~             | MHz  | 851.4≤ f ≤901.6   | 844≤ f ≤909       |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (Band XXVI        |      |                   |                   |
| operation)        |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| UE transmitted    | dBm  | 20 (for Power     |                   |
| mean power        |      | class 3 and 3bis) |                   |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
|                   |      | 18 (for Power     |                   |
|                   |      | class 4)          |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+

NOTE 1: I~blocking~ (modulated) consists of the common channels needed
for tests as specified in Table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data channels as
specified in Table E.3.6.

NOTE 2: For each carrier frequency the requirement is valid for two
frequencies, the carrier frequency +/- 10 MHz.

NOTE 3: For Band VI, Band XIX and Band XXI, the unwanted interfering
signal does not fall inside the UE receive band, but within the first 15
MHz below or above the UE receive band.

NOTE 4: Negative offsets refer to the assigned channel frequency of the
lowest carrier frequency used and positive offsets refer to the assigned
channel frequency of the highest carrier frequency used.

Table 6.5C.7: Test parameters for reference input powers for\
in-band blocking characteristics, DC-HSUPA

+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| Operating Band              | Unit         | HS-PDSCH\_Ec | Î~or~ |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| I                           | dBm/3.84 MHz | -110         | -99.7 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| II                          | dBm/3.84 MHz | -108         | -97.7 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| III                         | dBm/3.84 MHz | -107         | -96.7 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| IV                          | dBm/3.84 MHz | -110         | -99.7 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| V                           | dBm/3.84 MHz | -104.3       | -94   |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| VI                          | dBm/3.84 MHz | -104.7       | -94.4 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| VII                         | dBm/3.84 MHz | -108         | -97.7 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| VIII                        | dBm/3.84 MHz | -101.1       | -90.8 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| IX                          | dBm/3.84 MHz | -109         | -98.7 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| X                           | dBm/3.84 MHz | -110         | -99.7 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XI                          | dBm/3.84 MHz | -101.4       | -91.1 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XII                         | dBm/3.84 MHz | N/A          | N/A   |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XIII                        | dBm/3.84 MHz | N/A          | N/A   |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XIV                         | dBm/3.84 MHz | N/A          | N/A   |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XIX                         | dBm/3.84 MHz | -104.7       | -94.4 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XX                          | dBm/3.84 MHz | TBD          | TBD   |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XXI                         | dBm/3.84 MHz | -101.4       | -91.1 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XXII                        | dBm/3.84 MHz | TBD          | TBD   |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XXV                         | dBm/3.84 MHz | -106.5       | -96.2 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XXVI                        | dBm/3.84 MHz | -101.1       | -90.8 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| NOTE 1: For the UE which    |              |              |       |
| supports both Band III and  |              |              |       |
| Band IX operating           |              |              |       |
| frequencies, the reference  |              |              |       |
| sensitivity level of TBD    |              |              |       |
| dBm \<REF\_Ec~,in-band~\>   |              |              |       |
| shall apply for Band IX.    |              |              |       |
| The corresponding           |              |              |       |
| \<REFÎ~or,in-band~\> is TBD |              |              |       |
| dBm                         |              |              |       |
|                             |              |              |       |
| NOTE 2: For the UE which    |              |              |       |
| supports both Band XI and   |              |              |       |
| Band XXI operating          |              |              |       |
| frequencies, the reference  |              |              |       |
| input power level is FFS.   |              |              |       |
|                             |              |              |       |
| NOTE 3: For the UE which    |              |              |       |
| supports DB-DC-HSDPA        |              |              |       |
| configuration in clause 4.2 |              |              |       |
| the \< HS‑PDSCH\_Ec \> and  |              |              |       |
| \< Î~or~ \> are allowed to  |              |              |       |
| be increased by an amount   |              |              |       |
| defined in Table 6.1A       |              |              |       |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+

Table 6.5C.8: Test parameters for narrow band blocking for DC-HSUPA

+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| Parameter         | Unit | Band II, IV, V,   | Band III, VIII,   |
|                   |      | X, XXV, XXVI      | XII, XIII, XIV    |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| I~blocking~       | dBm  | -57               | -56               |
| (GMSK)            |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F~uw~ (offset)    | MHz  | ±2.7              | ±2.8              |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| (NOTE 2)          |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| UE transmitted    | dBm  | 20 (for Power     |                   |
| mean power        |      | class 3 and 3bis) |                   |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
|                   |      | 18 (for Power     |                   |
|                   |      | class 4)          |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+

NOTE 5: I~blocking~ (GMSK) is an interfering signal as defined in TS
45.004.

NOTE 6: Offset refers to the assigned channel frequencies of the
individual cells.

Table 6.5C.9: Test parameters for reference input powers for narrow-band
blocking, DC-HSUPA

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- -------------- -------
  Operating Band                                                                                                                                                                  Unit           HS-PDSCH\_Ec   Î~or~
  II                                                                                                                                                                              dBm/3.84 MHz   -101           -90.7
  III                                                                                                                                                                             dBm/3.84 MHz   -100           -89.7
  IV                                                                                                                                                                              dBm/3.84 MHz   -102.8         -92.5
  V                                                                                                                                                                               dBm/3.84 MHz   -100.9         -90.6
  VIII                                                                                                                                                                            dBm/3.84 MHz   -98.5          -88.2
  X                                                                                                                                                                               dBm/3.84 MHz   -102.8         -92.5
  XII                                                                                                                                                                             dBm/3.84 MHz   N/A            N/A
  XIII                                                                                                                                                                            dBm/3.84 MHz   N/A            N/A
  XIV                                                                                                                                                                             dBm/3.84 MHz   N/A            N/A
  XXV                                                                                                                                                                             dBm/3.84 MHz   -99.5          -89.2
  XXVI                                                                                                                                                                            dBm/3.84 MHz   -98.5          -88.2
  NOTE: For the UE which supports DB-DC-HSDPA configuration in clause 4.2 the \< HS‑PDSCH\_Ec \> and \< Î~or~ \> are allowed to be increased by an amount defined in Table 6.1A                                 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- -------------- -------

NOTE 7: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

6.5D Blocking Characteristics for single Uplink Single band 4C-HSDPA
--------------------------------------------------------------------

### 6.5D.1 Definition and applicability

The blocking characteristic is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to
receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency in the
presence of an unwanted interferer on frequencies other than those of
the spurious response or the adjacent channels, without this unwanted
input signal causing a degradation of the performance of the receiver
beyond a specified limit. The blocking performance shall apply at all
frequencies except those at which a spurious response occur.

The requirements in clause 6.5D.2.1 and 6.5D.2.2 and this test apply for
Release 10 and later releases to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that
support single band single uplink 4C-HSDPA.

Single band 4C-HSDPA is designed to operate in configurations specified
in clause 4.2.

### 6.5D.2 Minimum Requirements

#### 6.5D.2.1 Minimum Requirements (In-band blocking)

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.5D.1 and 6.5D.2. In-band blocking is
defined for an unwanted interfering signal falling into the UE receive
band or into the first 15 MHz below or above the UE receive band.

Table 6.5D.1: Test parameters for in-band blocking, single band
4C-HSDPA, single uplink operation

+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| Parameter           | Unit | Level               |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| I~blocking~ mean    | dBm  | -56                 | -44           |
| power (modulated)   |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~ offset        |      | =±10 MHz            | ≤-15 MHz      |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (NOTE 2)            |      |                     | &             |
|                     |      |                     |               |
|                     |      |                     | ≥15 MHz       |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 2102.4≤ f ≤2177.6   | 2095≤ f ≤2185 |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (Band I operation)  |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| UE transmitted mean | dBm  | 20 (for Power class |               |
| power               |      | 3 and 3bis)         |               |
|                     |      |                     |               |
|                     |      | 18 (for Power class |               |
|                     |      | 4)                  |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+

NOTE 1: I~blocking~ (modulated) consists of the common channels needed
for tests as specified in Table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data channels as
specified in Table E.3.6.

NOTE 2: For single band 4C-HSDPA, negative offset refers to the assigned
channel frequency of the lowest carrier frequencies, and positive offset
refers to the assigned channel frequency of the highest carrier
frequencies.

Table 6.5D.2: In-band blocking requirements, single band 4C-HSDPA,
single uplink operation

+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
| Single band  | DL Band | HS-PDSCH\_Ec | Î~or~        | UL-DL        |
| 4C-HSDPA     |         | (            |              | carrier      |
| C            |         | dBm/3.84MHz) | (            | separation   |
| onfiguration |         |              | dBm/3.84MHz) |              |
+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
| I-3          | I       | \            | \<           | Minimum      |
|              |         | <REFSENS\>+3 | REFÎ~or~\>+3 |              |
|              |         | dB           | dB           |              |
+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+

> NOTE 3: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refer to the
> HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
> Table 6.2C.1 for single band 4C-HSDPA.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.6.1C.1.

#### 6.5D.2.2 Minimum requirements (Out of-band blocking)

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.5D.3 and 6.5D.4. Out-of-band band
blocking is defined for an unwanted interfering signal falling more than
15 MHz below or above the UE receive band.

For Table 6.5D.3 in frequency range 1, 2 and 3, up to 24 exceptions per
received cell are allowed for spurious response frequencies in each
assigned frequency channel when measured using a 1 MHz step size. For
these exceptions the requirements of clause 6.6C spurious response are
applicable.

For Table 6.5D.4 in frequency range 4, up to 8 exceptions per received
cell are allowed for spurious response frequencies in each assigned
frequency channel when measured using a 1 MHz step size. For these
exceptions the requirements of clause 6.6C spurious response are
applicable.

Table 6.5D.3: Test parameters for out of band blocking, single band
4C-HSDPA

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| P        | Unit     | F        | F        | F        | F        |
| arameter |          | requency | requency | requency | requency |
|          |          | range 1  | range 2  | range 3  | range 4  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I~b      | dBm      | -44      | -30      | -15      | -15      |
| locking~ |          |          |          |          |          |
| (CW)     |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 2050\<f  | 2025 \<f | 1\< f    | \-       |
|          |          | \<2095   | ≤2050    | ≤2025    |          |
| (Single  |          |          |          |          |          |
| band     |          | 2185\<f  | 2230 ≤f  | 2255≤    |          |
| 4C-HSDPA |          | \<2230   | \<2255   | f\<12750 |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| Confi    |          |          |          |          |          |
| guration |          |          |          |          |          |
| I-3)     |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| UE       | dBm      | 20 (for  |          |          |          |
| tra      |          | Power    |          |          |          |
| nsmitted |          | class 3  |          |          |          |
| mean     |          | and      |          |          |          |
| power    |          | 3bis)    |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          | 18 (for  |          |          |          |
|          |          | Power    |          |          |          |
|          |          | class 4) |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Single   | For      |          |          |          |          |
| band     | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA | ≤2185    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
| Confi    | app      |          |          |          |          |
| guration | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
| I-3      | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | \[       |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4D.2\] |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5D.2.1 |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

Table 6.5D.4: Out of band blocking requirements, single band 4C-HSDPA

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Singe   | Pa      | Fr      | Fr      | Fr      | Fr      | UL-DL   |
| band    | rameter | equency | equency | equency | equency | carrier |
| 4       |         | range 1 | range 2 | range 3 | range 4 | sep     |
| C-HSDPA |         |         |         |         |         | aration |
| Config  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| uration |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-3     | HS-PD   | \<RE    | \<RE    | \<RE    | \<RE    | Minimum |
|         | SCH\_Ec | FSENS\> | FSENS\> | FSENS\> | FSENS\> |         |
|         | (dBm/3  |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | .84MHz) | +3 dB   | +3 dB   | +3 dB   | +3 dB   |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | Î~or~   | \<REF   | \<REF   | \<REF   | \<REF   |         |
|         | (dBm/3  | Î~or~\> | Î~or~\> | Î~or~\> | Î~or~\> |         |
|         | .84MHz) | + 3 dB  | + 3 dB  | + 3 dB  | + 3 dB  |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

NOTE: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\>
and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in Table 6.2C.1.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.6.2C.

### 6.5D.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BLER of HS-PDSCH on each individual cell does not
exceed 0.1 for the parameters specified in table 6.5D.6, table 6.5D.7,
table 6.5D.8 and table 6.5D.10 for the DL reference channel H-Set 1B
specified in Annex C.8.1.1.

The lack of the blocking ability decreases the 4C-HSDPA coverage area
when other transmitter exists (except in the adjacent channels and
spurious response).

### 6.5D.4 Method of test

#### 6.5D.4.1 Initial conditions

For in-band case:

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clauseG.2.4.

For out-of-band case:

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequency to be tested: 1 arbitrary frequency chosen from the low, mid
or high range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.49.

2\) RF parameters are set up according to table 6.5D.6, table 6.5D.7,
table 6.5D.8 and table 6.5D.9.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic 4C-HSDPA setup procedure
specified in TS34.108\[3\] sub clause 7.3.16, with exceptions for
information elements listed in Table 6.5D.5. With this exception, the
Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to algorithm 2.

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-test-loop-mode1-14 .H6}

Table 6.5D.5: Specific Message Contents for In-band blocking
characteristics for Single band 4C-HSDPA, Single uplink operation

  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                       Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2         
  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

#### 6.5D.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set the parameters of the CW generator or the interference signal
generator as shown in table 6.5D.6 and table 6.5D.7, for inblocking
measurements and table 6.5D.8 and table 6.5D.9 for out of band
measurements. For table 6.5D.8 and 6.5D.9, the frequency step size is 1
MHz.

2\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.5D.6, table
6.5D.7, table 6.5D.8 and table 6.5D.9, or send the power control
commands (1dB step size should be used.) to the UE until UE output power
measured by Test System shall be kept at the specified power level with
±1dB tolerance.

3\) Measure the BLER of HS-PDSCH received from the UE at the SS by
counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the UL HS-DPCCH (BLER =
(NACK + statDTX)/(NACK + statDTX + ACK)).

4\) For table 6.5D.8 and 6.5D.9, record the frequencies for which BLER
exceed the test requirements.

### 6.5D.5 Test requirements

For table 6.5D.6 and 6.5D.7, the measured BLER, derived in step 2),
shall not exceed 0.1 on each individual cell. For table 6.5D.8 and
6.5D.9, the measured BLER, derived in step 2) shall not exceed 0.1 on
each individual cell except for the spurious response frequencies,
recorded in step 3). The number of spurious response frequencies,
recorded in step 3) shall not exceed 24 for frequency range 1, 2 and 3.
The number of spurious response frequencies, recorded in step 3) shall
not exceed 8 for frequency range 4. The minimum number of measurements
required for a statistically significant result to this test is
clarified in annex F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.0.

Table 6.5D.6: Test parameters for in-band blocking, single band
4C-HSDPA, single uplink operation

+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| Parameter           | Unit | Level               |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| I~blocking~ mean    | dBm  | -56                 | -44           |
| power (modulated)   |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~ offset        |      | =±10 MHz            | ≤-15 MHz      |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (NOTE 2)            |      |                     | &             |
|                     |      |                     |               |
|                     |      |                     | ≥15 MHz       |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 2102.4≤ f ≤2177.6   | 2095≤ f ≤2185 |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (Band I operation)  |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| UE transmitted mean | dBm  | 20 (for Power class |               |
| power               |      | 3 and 3bis)         |               |
|                     |      |                     |               |
|                     |      | 18 (for Power class |               |
|                     |      | 4)                  |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+

NOTE 1: I~blocking~ (modulated) consists of the common channels needed
for tests as specified in Table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data channels as
specified in Table E.3.6.

NOTE 2: For single band 4C-HSDPA, negative offset refers to the assigned
channel frequency of the lowest carrier frequencies, and positive offset
refers to the assigned channel frequency of the highest carrier
frequencies.

Table 6.5D.7: In-band blocking requirements, single band 4C-HSDPA,
single uplink operation

+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
| Single band  | DL Band | HS-PDSCH\_Ec | Î~or~        | UL-DL        |
| 4C-HSDPA     |         | (            |              | carrier      |
| C            |         | dBm/3.84MHz) | (            | separation   |
| onfiguration |         |              | dBm/3.84MHz) |              |
+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
| I-3          | I       | \            | \<           | Minimum      |
|              |         | <REFSENS\>+3 | REFÎ~or~\>+3 |              |
|              |         | dB           | dB           |              |
+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+

> NOTE 3: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refer to the
> HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
> Table 6.2C.1 for single band 4C-HSDPA.

Table 6.5D.8: Test parameters for out of band blocking, single band
4C-HSDPA

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| P        | Unit     | F        | F        | F        | F        |
| arameter |          | requency | requency | requency | requency |
|          |          | range 1  | range 2  | range 3  | range 4  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I~b      | dBm      | -44      | -30      | -15      | -15      |
| locking~ |          |          |          |          |          |
| (CW)     |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 2050\<f  | 2025 \<f | 1\< f    | \-       |
|          |          | \<2095   | ≤2050    | ≤2025    |          |
| (Single  |          |          |          |          |          |
| band     |          | 2185\<f  | 2230 ≤f  | 2255≤    |          |
| 4C-HSDPA |          | \<2230   | \<2255   | f\<12750 |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| Confi    |          |          |          |          |          |
| guration |          |          |          |          |          |
| I-3)     |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| UE       | dBm      | 20 (for  |          |          |          |
| tra      |          | Power    |          |          |          |
| nsmitted |          | class 3  |          |          |          |
| mean     |          | and      |          |          |          |
| power    |          | 3bis)    |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          | 18 (for  |          |          |          |
|          |          | Power    |          |          |          |
|          |          | class 4) |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Single   | For      |          |          |          |          |
| band     | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA | ≤2185    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
| Confi    | app      |          |          |          |          |
| guration | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
| I-3      | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | \[       |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4D.2\] |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5D.2.1 |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

Table 6.5D.9: Out of band blocking requirements, single band 4C-HSDPA

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Singe   | Pa      | Fr      | Fr      | Fr      | Fr      | UL-DL   |
| band    | rameter | equency | equency | equency | equency | carrier |
| 4       |         | range 1 | range 2 | range 3 | range 4 | sep     |
| C-HSDPA |         |         |         |         |         | aration |
| Config  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| uration |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-3     | HS-PD   | \<RE    | \<RE    | \<RE    | \<RE    | Minimum |
|         | SCH\_Ec | FSENS\> | FSENS\> | FSENS\> | FSENS\> |         |
|         | (dBm/3  |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | .84MHz) | +3 dB   | +3 dB   | +3 dB   | +3 dB   |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | Î~or~   | \<REF   | \<REF   | \<REF   | \<REF   |         |
|         | (dBm/3  | Î~or~\> | Î~or~\> | Î~or~\> | Î~or~\> |         |
|         | .84MHz) | + 3 dB  | + 3 dB  | + 3 dB  | + 3 dB  |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

NOTE 4: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the
HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
Table 6.2C.1.

NOTE 5: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

6.5E Blocking Characteristics for dual uplink single band 4C-HSDPA
------------------------------------------------------------------

### 6.5E.1 Definition and applicability

The blocking characteristic is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to
receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency in the
presence of an unwanted interferer on frequencies other than those of
the spurious response or the adjacent channels, without this unwanted
input signal causing a degradation of the performance of the receiver
beyond a specified limit. The blocking performance shall apply at all
frequencies except those at which a spurious response occur.

The requirements in clause 6.5E.2.1 and 6.5E.2.2 and this test apply for
Release 10 and later releases to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that
support single band dual uplink 4C-HSDPA.

Single band 4C-HSDPA is designed to operate in configurations specified
in clause 4.2.

### 6.5E.2 Minimum Requirements

#### 6.5E.2.1 Minimum Requirements (In-band blocking)

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.5E.1 and 6.5E.2. In-band blocking is
defined for an unwanted interfering signal falling into the UE receive
band or into the first 15 MHz below or above the UE receive band.

Table 6.5E.1: Test parameters for in-band blocking, single band
4C-HSDPA, dual uplink operation

+------------------------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| Parameter                          | Unit | Level             |               |
+------------------------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| I~blocking~ mean power (modulated) | dBm  | -56               | -44           |
+------------------------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~ offset                       |      | =±10 MHz          | ≤-15 MHz      |
|                                    |      |                   |               |
| (NOTE 2)                           |      |                   | &             |
|                                    |      |                   |               |
|                                    |      |                   | ≥15 MHz       |
+------------------------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~                              | MHz  | 2102.4≤ f ≤2177.6 | 2095≤ f ≤2185 |
|                                    |      |                   |               |
| (Band I operation)                 |      |                   |               |
+------------------------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+

NOTE 1: I~blocking~ (modulated) consists of the common channels needed
for tests as specified in Table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data channels as
specified in Table E.3.6.

NOTE 2: For single band 4C-HSDPA, negative offset refers to the assigned
channel frequency of the lowest carrier frequencies, and positive offset
refers to the assigned channel frequency of the highest carrier
frequencies.

Table 6.5E.2: In-band blocking requirements, single band 4C-HSDPA, dual
uplink operation

+----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Single   | DL Band | HS-P     | Î~or~    | UE       | UL-DL    |
| band     |         | DSCH\_Ec |          | tra      | carrier  |
| 4C-HSDPA |         | (dBm/    | (dBm/    | nsmitted | se       |
| Confi    |         | 3.84MHz) | 3.84MHz) | mean     | paration |
| guration |         |          |          | power    |          |
|          |         |          |          | (dBm)    |          |
+----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-3      | I       | -110     | -99.7    | 20 (for  | Minimum  |
|          |         |          |          | Power    |          |
|          |         |          |          | class 3  |          |
|          |         |          |          | and      |          |
|          |         |          |          | 3bis)    |          |
|          |         |          |          |          |          |
|          |         |          |          | 18 (for  |          |
|          |         |          |          | Power    |          |
|          |         |          |          | class 4) |          |
+----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE 1:  |         |          |          |          |          |
| For the  |         |          |          |          |          |
| UE which |         |          |          |          |          |
| supports |         |          |          |          |          |
| DB-      |         |          |          |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA |         |          |          |          |          |
| confi    |         |          |          |          |          |
| guration |         |          |          |          |          |
| in       |         |          |          |          |          |
| section  |         |          |          |          |          |
| 4.2 the  |         |          |          |          |          |
| \<       |         |          |          |          |          |
| HS-P     |         |          |          |          |          |
| DSCH\_Ec |         |          |          |          |          |
| \> and   |         |          |          |          |          |
| \< Î~or~ |         |          |          |          |          |
| \> are   |         |          |          |          |          |
| allowed  |         |          |          |          |          |
| to be    |         |          |          |          |          |
| i        |         |          |          |          |          |
| ncreased |         |          |          |          |          |
| by an    |         |          |          |          |          |
| amount   |         |          |          |          |          |
| defined  |         |          |          |          |          |
| in Table |         |          |          |          |          |
| 6.1A.    |         |          |          |          |          |
|          |         |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 2:  |         |          |          |          |          |
| For the  |         |          |          |          |          |
| UE which |         |          |          |          |          |
| supports |         |          |          |          |          |
| dual     |         |          |          |          |          |
| band     |         |          |          |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA |         |          |          |          |          |
| confi    |         |          |          |          |          |
| guration |         |          |          |          |          |
| in Table |         |          |          |          |          |
| 4.0B the |         |          |          |          |          |
| \<       |         |          |          |          |          |
| HS-P     |         |          |          |          |          |
| DSCH\_Ec |         |          |          |          |          |
| \> and   |         |          |          |          |          |
| \< Î~or~ |         |          |          |          |          |
| \> are   |         |          |          |          |          |
| allowed  |         |          |          |          |          |
| to be    |         |          |          |          |          |
| i        |         |          |          |          |          |
| ncreased |         |          |          |          |          |
| by an    |         |          |          |          |          |
| amount   |         |          |          |          |          |
| defined  |         |          |          |          |          |
| in Table |         |          |          |          |          |
| 6.1B.    |         |          |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.6.1C.2.

### 6.5E.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BLER of HS-PDSCH on each individual cell does not
exceed 0.1 for the parameters specified in table 6.5E.4 and table 6.5E.5
for the DL reference channel H-Set 1B specified in Annex C.8.1.1.

The lack of the blocking ability decreases the 4C-HSDPA coverage area
when other transmitter exists (except in the adjacent channels and
spurious response).

### 6.5E.4 Method of test

#### 6.5E.4.1 Initial conditions

For in-band case:

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clauseG.2.4.

For out-of-band case:

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequency to be tested: 1 arbitrary frequency chosen from the low, mid
or high range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figureA.49.

2\) RF parameters are set up according to table 6.5E.4 and table 6.5E.5.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic 4C-HSDPA setup procedure
specified in TS34.108\[3\] sub clause 7.3.16, with exceptions for
information elements listed in Table 6.5E.3. With this exception, the
Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to algorithm 2.

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-test-loop-mode1-15 .H6}

Table 6.5E.3: Specific Message Contents for In-band blocking
characteristics for Single band 4C-HSDPA, Single uplink operation

  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                       Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2         
  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

#### 6.5E.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set the parameters of the CW generator or the interference signal
generator as shown in table 6.5E.4 and table 6.5E.5, for inblocking
measurements.

2\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.5E.4 and table
6.5E.5, or send the power control commands (1dB step size should be
used.) to the UE until UE output power measured by Test System shall be
kept at the specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.

3\) Measure the BLER of HS-PDSCH received from the UE at the SS by
counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the UL HS-DPCCH (BLER =
(NACK + statDTX)/(NACK + statDTX + ACK)).

4\) For table 6.5E.5, record the frequencies for which BLER exceed the
test requirements.

### 6.5E.5 Test requirements

For table 6.5E.4 and 6.5E.5, the measured BLER, derived in step 2),
shall not exceed 0.1 on each individual cell. The minimum number of
measurements required for a statistically significant result to this
test is clarified in annex F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.0.

Table 6.5E.4: Test parameters for in-band blocking, single band
4C-HSDPA, dual uplink operation

+------------------------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| Parameter                          | Unit | Level             |               |
+------------------------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| I~blocking~ mean power (modulated) | dBm  | -56               | -44           |
+------------------------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~ offset                       |      | =±10 MHz          | ≤-15 MHz      |
|                                    |      |                   |               |
| (NOTE 2)                           |      |                   | &             |
|                                    |      |                   |               |
|                                    |      |                   | ≥15 MHz       |
+------------------------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~                              | MHz  | 2102.4≤ f ≤2177.6 | 2095≤ f ≤2185 |
|                                    |      |                   |               |
| (Band I operation)                 |      |                   |               |
+------------------------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+

NOTE 1: I~blocking~ (modulated) consists of the common channels needed
for tests as specified in Table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data channels as
specified in Table E.3.6.

NOTE 2: For single band 4C-HSDPA, negative offset refers to the assigned
channel frequency of the lowest carrier frequencies, and positive offset
refers to the assigned channel frequency of the highest carrier
frequencies.

Table 6.5E.5: In-band blocking requirements, single band 4C-HSDPA, dual
uplink operation

+----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Single   | DL Band | HS-P     | Î~or~    | UE       | UL-DL    |
| band     |         | DSCH\_Ec |          | tra      | carrier  |
| 4C-HSDPA |         | (dBm/    | (dBm/    | nsmitted | se       |
| Confi    |         | 3.84MHz) | 3.84MHz) | mean     | paration |
| guration |         |          |          | power    |          |
|          |         |          |          | (dBm)    |          |
+----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-3      | I       | -110     | -99.7    | 20 (for  | Minimum  |
|          |         |          |          | Power    |          |
|          |         |          |          | class 3  |          |
|          |         |          |          | and      |          |
|          |         |          |          | 3bis)    |          |
|          |         |          |          |          |          |
|          |         |          |          | 18 (for  |          |
|          |         |          |          | Power    |          |
|          |         |          |          | class 4) |          |
+----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE 1:  |         |          |          |          |          |
| For the  |         |          |          |          |          |
| UE which |         |          |          |          |          |
| supports |         |          |          |          |          |
| DB-      |         |          |          |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA |         |          |          |          |          |
| confi    |         |          |          |          |          |
| guration |         |          |          |          |          |
| in       |         |          |          |          |          |
| section  |         |          |          |          |          |
| 4.2 the  |         |          |          |          |          |
| \<       |         |          |          |          |          |
| HS-P     |         |          |          |          |          |
| DSCH\_Ec |         |          |          |          |          |
| \> and   |         |          |          |          |          |
| \< Î~or~ |         |          |          |          |          |
| \> are   |         |          |          |          |          |
| allowed  |         |          |          |          |          |
| to be    |         |          |          |          |          |
| i        |         |          |          |          |          |
| ncreased |         |          |          |          |          |
| by an    |         |          |          |          |          |
| amount   |         |          |          |          |          |
| defined  |         |          |          |          |          |
| in Table |         |          |          |          |          |
| 6.1A.    |         |          |          |          |          |
|          |         |          |          |          |          |
| NOTE 2:  |         |          |          |          |          |
| For the  |         |          |          |          |          |
| UE which |         |          |          |          |          |
| supports |         |          |          |          |          |
| dual     |         |          |          |          |          |
| band     |         |          |          |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA |         |          |          |          |          |
| confi    |         |          |          |          |          |
| guration |         |          |          |          |          |
| in Table |         |          |          |          |          |
| 4.0B the |         |          |          |          |          |
| \<       |         |          |          |          |          |
| HS-P     |         |          |          |          |          |
| DSCH\_Ec |         |          |          |          |          |
| \> and   |         |          |          |          |          |
| \< Î~or~ |         |          |          |          |          |
| \> are   |         |          |          |          |          |
| allowed  |         |          |          |          |          |
| to be    |         |          |          |          |          |
| i        |         |          |          |          |          |
| ncreased |         |          |          |          |          |
| by an    |         |          |          |          |          |
| amount   |         |          |          |          |          |
| defined  |         |          |          |          |          |
| in Table |         |          |          |          |          |
| 6.1B.    |         |          |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

NOTE 3: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

6.5F Blocking Characteristics for single Uplink dual band 4C-HSDPA
------------------------------------------------------------------

### 6.5F.1 Definition and applicability

The blocking characteristic is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to
receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency in the
presence of an unwanted interferer on frequencies other than those of
the spurious response or the adjacent channels, without this unwanted
input signal causing a degradation of the performance of the receiver
beyond a specified limit. The blocking performance shall apply at all
frequencies except those at which a spurious response occur.

The requirements in clause 6.5F.2.1 and 6.5F.2.2 and this test apply for
Release 10 and later releases to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that
support dual band single uplink 4C-HSDPA and HS-DSCH categories 31 or
32.

Dual band 4C-HSDPA is designed to operate in configurations specified in
clause 4.2.

### 6.5F.2 Minimum Requirements

#### 6.5F.2.1 Minimum Requirements (In-band blocking)

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.5F.1 and 6.5F.2. In-band blocking is
defined for an unwanted interfering signal falling into the UE receive
band or into the first 15 MHz below or above the UE receive band.

Table 6.5F.1: Test parameters for in-band blocking, dual band 4C-HSDPA,
single uplink operation

+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| Parameter           | Unit | Level               |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| I~blocking~ mean    | dBm  | -56                 | -44           |
| power (modulated)   |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~ offset        |      | =±10 MHz            | ≤-15 MHz      |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (NOTE 2)            |      |                     | &             |
|                     |      |                     |               |
|                     |      |                     | ≥15 MHz       |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 2102.4≤ f ≤2177.6   | 2095≤ f ≤2185 |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (Band I operation)  |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 1922.4≤ f ≤1997.6   | 1915≤ f ≤2005 |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (Band II operation) |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 2102.4≤ f ≤2162.6   | 2095≤ f ≤2170 |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (Band IV operation) |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 861.4≤ f ≤901.6     | 854≤ f ≤909   |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (Band V operation)  |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| Fuw                 | MHz  | 917.4≤ f ≤967.6     | 910 ≤ f ≤ 975 |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (Band VIII          |      |                     |               |
| operation)          |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 1444.4≤ f ≤1503.6   | 1437≤ f ≤1511 |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (Band XXXII         |      |                     |               |
| operation)          |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| UE transmitted mean | dBm  | 20 (for Power class |               |
| power               |      | 3 and 3bis)         |               |
|                     |      |                     |               |
|                     |      | 18 (for Power class |               |
|                     |      | 4)                  |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| NOTE 1: I~blocking~ |      |                     |               |
| (modulated)         |      |                     |               |
| consists of the     |      |                     |               |
| common channels     |      |                     |               |
| needed for tests as |      |                     |               |
| specified in Table  |      |                     |               |
| E.4.1 and 16        |      |                     |               |
| dedicated data      |      |                     |               |
| channels as         |      |                     |               |
| specified in Table  |      |                     |               |
| E.3.6.              |      |                     |               |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| NOTE 2: For dual    |      |                     |               |
| band 4C-HSDPA,      |      |                     |               |
| negative offset     |      |                     |               |
| refers to the       |      |                     |               |
| assigned channel    |      |                     |               |
| frequency of the    |      |                     |               |
| lowest carrier      |      |                     |               |
| frequenc(ies) in    |      |                     |               |
| each band, and      |      |                     |               |
| positive offset     |      |                     |               |
| refers to the       |      |                     |               |
| assigned channel    |      |                     |               |
| frequency of the    |      |                     |               |
| highest carrier     |      |                     |               |
| frequenc(ies) in    |      |                     |               |
| each band.          |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+

Table 6.5F.2: In-band blocking requirements, dual band 4C-HSDPA, single
uplink operation

+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| Dual     | DL Band | UL Band | HS-P     | Î~or~    | UL-DL    |
| band     |         |         | DSCH\_Ec | (dBm/    | carrier  |
| 4C-HSDPA |         |         | (dBm/    | 3.84MHz) | se       |
| Confi    |         |         | 3.84MHz) |          | paration |
| guration |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-       | I       | I       | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
| 2-VIII-1 |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
| I-       |         |         |          |          |          |
| 3-VIII-1 |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | VIII    |         | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | I       | VIII    | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | VIII    |         | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| I        | II      | II      | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
| I-1-IV-2 |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
| I        |         |         |          |          |          |
| I-2-IV-1 |         |         |          |          |          |
|          |         |         |          |          |          |
| I        |         |         |          |          |          |
| I-2-IV-2 |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | IV      |         | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | II      | IV      | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | IV      |         | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-1-V-2  | I       | I       | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
| I-2-V-1  |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
|          |         |         |          |          |          |
| I-2-V-2  |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | V       |         | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | I       | V       | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | V       |         | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-1      | I       | I       | \<REF    | \<RE     | Minimum  |
| -XXXII-2 |         |         | SENS\>+3 | FÎor\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
| I-2      |         |         |          |          |          |
| -XXXII-1 |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | XXXII   |         | \<RE     | \<R      | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | FSENS\>+ | EFÎor\>+ |          |
|          |         |         | 3 dB     | 3dB      |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE:    |         |         |          |          |          |
| \<R      |         |         |          |          |          |
| EFSENS\> |         |         |          |          |          |
| and      |         |         |          |          |          |
| \<RE     |         |         |          |          |          |
| FÎ~or~\> |         |         |          |          |          |
| refer to |         |         |          |          |          |
| the      |         |         |          |          |          |
| HS-PDSC  |         |         |          |          |          |
| H\_Ec\<R |         |         |          |          |          |
| EFSENS\> |         |         |          |          |          |
| and the  |         |         |          |          |          |
| HS-P     |         |         |          |          |          |
| DSCH\<RE |         |         |          |          |          |
| FÎ~or~\> |         |         |          |          |          |
| as       |         |         |          |          |          |
| s        |         |         |          |          |          |
| pecified |         |         |          |          |          |
| in Table |         |         |          |          |          |
| 6.2D.1   |         |         |          |          |          |
| for dual |         |         |          |          |          |
| band     |         |         |          |          |          |
| 4        |         |         |          |          |          |
| C-HSDPA. |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.6.1D.1.

#### 6.5F.2.2 Minimum requirements (Out of-band blocking)

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.5F.3 and 6.5F.4. Out-of-band band
blocking is defined for an unwanted interfering signal falling more than
15 MHz below or above the UE receive band.

For Table 6.5F.3 in frequency range 1, 2 and 3, up to 24 exceptions per
received cell are allowed for spurious response frequencies in each
assigned frequency channel when measured using a 1 MHz step size. For
these exceptions the requirements of clause 6.6D spurious response are
applicable.

For Table 6.5F.4 in frequency range 4, up to 8 exceptions per received
cell are allowed for spurious response frequencies in each assigned
frequency channel when measured using a 1 MHz step size. For these
exceptions the requirements of clause 6.6D spurious response are
applicable.

Table 6.5F.3: Test parameters for out of band blocking, dual band
4C-HSDPA

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| P        | Unit     | F        | F        | F        | F        |
| arameter |          | requency | requency | requency | requency |
|          |          |          | range 2  | range 3  | range 4  |
|          |          | range 1  |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I~b      | dBm      | -44      | -30      | -15      | -15      |
| locking~ |          |          |          |          |          |
| (CW)     |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 865\< f  | 840\< f  | 1\< f    | \-       |
|          |          | \<910    | ≤865     | ≤840     |          |
| (Dual    |          |          |          |          |          |
| band     |          | 975\< f  | 1020≤ f  | 1045≤ f  |          |
| 4C-HSDPA |          | \<1020   | \<1045   | \<2025   |          |
| Confi    |          |          |          |          |          |
| guration |          | 2050\< f | 2025\< f | 2255\< f |          |
|          |          | \<2095   | ≤2050    | ≤ 12750  |          |
| I-2      |          |          |          |          |          |
| -VIII-1, |          | 2185\< f | 2230≤ f  |          |          |
| I-3      |          | \<2230   | \<2255   |          |          |
| -VIII-1) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1870\< f | 1845\< f | 1\< f    | 1850≤ f  |
|          |          | \<1915   | ≤1870    | ≤1845    | ≤1910    |
| (Dual    |          |          |          |          |          |
| band     |          | 2005\< f | 2215≤ f  | 2240≤ f  |          |
| 4C-HSDPA |          | \<2095   | \<2240   | \<12750  |          |
| Confi    |          |          |          |          |          |
| guration |          | 2170\< f |          |          |          |
| II       |          | \<2215   |          |          |          |
| -1-IV-2, |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| II       |          |          |          |          |          |
| -2-IV-1, |          |          |          |          |          |
| II       |          |          |          |          |          |
| -2-IV-2) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 809\< f  | 784\< f  | 1\< f    | 824 ≤ f  |
|          |          | \<854    | ≤809     | ≤784     | ≤ 849    |
| (Dual    |          |          |          |          |          |
| band     |          | 909\< f  | 954≤ f   | 979≤ f   |          |
| 4C-HSDPA |          | \<954    | \< 979   | \<2025   |          |
| Confi    |          |          |          |          |          |
| guration |          | 2050\< f | 2025\< f | 2255\< f |          |
| I-1-V-2, |          | \<2095   | ≤2050    | ≤12750   |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-V-1, |          | 2185\< f | 2230≤ f  |          |          |
| I-2-V-2) |          | \<2230   | \<2255   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1392\< f | 1367\< f | 1\< f    | \-       |
|          |          | \<1437   | ≤1392    | ≤1367    |          |
| (Dual    |          |          |          |          |          |
| band     |          | 1511\< f | 1556≤ f  | 1581≤ f  |          |
| 4C-HSDPA |          | \<1556   | \<1581   | \<2025   |          |
| Confi    |          |          |          |          |          |
| guration |          | 2050\< f | 2025\< f | 2255\< f |          |
| I-1-     |          | \<2095   | ≤2050    | ≤ 12750  |          |
| XXXII-2, |          |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-     |          | 2185\< f | 2230≤ f  |          |          |
| XXXII-1) |          | \<2230   | \<2255   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| UE       | dBm      | 20 (for  |          |          |          |
| tra      |          | Power    |          |          |          |
| nsmitted |          | class 3  |          |          |          |
| mean     |          | and      |          |          |          |
| power    |          | 3bis)    |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          | 18 (for  |          |          |          |
|          |          | Power    |          |          |          |
|          |          | class 4) |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Dual     | For      |          |          |          |          |
| band     | 910≤f    |          |          |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA | ≤975 MHz |          |          |          |          |
| Confi    | and      |          |          |          |          |
| guration | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
|          | ≤2185    |          |          |          |          |
| I-2      | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
| -VIII-1, | app      |          |          |          |          |
| I-       | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
| 3-VIII-1 | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | \[       |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4D.2\] |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5F.2.1 |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Dual     | For      |          |          |          |          |
| band     | 1915≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA | ≤2005    |          |          |          |          |
| Confi    | MHz and  |          |          |          |          |
| guration | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| II       | ≤2070    |          |          |          |          |
| -1-IV-2, | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
| II       | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
| -2-IV-1, | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
| I        | blocking |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-IV-2 | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | \[       |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4D.2\] |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5F.2.1 |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Dual     | For      |          |          |          |          |
| band     | 8        |          |          |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA | 54≤f≤909 |          |          |          |          |
| Confi    | MHz and  |          |          |          |          |
| guration | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| I-1-V-2, | ≤2185    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-V-1, | app      |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-V-2  | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | \[       |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4D.2\] |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5F.2.1 |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Dual     | For      |          |          |          |          |
| band     | 1437≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA | ≤1511    |          |          |          |          |
| Confi    | MHz and  |          |          |          |          |
| guration | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| I-1-     | ≤2185    |          |          |          |          |
| XXXII-2, | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
| I-2      | app      |          |          |          |          |
| -XXXII-1 | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | \[       |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4D.2\] |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5F.2.1 |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

Table 6.5F.4: Out of band blocking requirements, dual band 4C-HSDPA

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Dual  | DL    | UL    | Para  | Freq  | Freq  | Freq  | Freq  | UL-DL |
| band  | Band  | Band  | meter | uency | uency | uency | uency | ca    |
| 4C-   |       |       |       | range | range | range | range | rrier |
| HSDPA |       |       |       | 1     | 2     | 3     | 4     | separ |
| Con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |
| figur |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| I-2-V | I     | I     | HS    | \     | \     | \     | \     | Mi    |
| III-1 |       |       | -PDSC | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | nimum |
|       |       |       | H\_Ec | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> |       |
| I-3-V |       |       | (dB   |       |       |       |       |       |
| III-1 |       |       | m/3.8 | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | VIII  |       | Î~or~ | \<    | \<    | \<    | \<    | Mi    |
|       |       |       | (dB   | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | nimum |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  |       |
|       |       |       |       | dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | I     | VIII  | HS    | \     | \     | \     | \     | Mi    |
|       |       |       | -PDSC | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | nimum |
|       |       |       | H\_Ec | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> |       |
|       |       |       | (dB   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | VIII  |       | Î~or~ | \<    | \<    | \<    | \<    | Mi    |
|       |       |       | (dB   | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | nimum |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  |       |
|       |       |       |       | dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| II-1  | II    | II    | HS    | \     | \     | \     | \     | Mi    |
| -IV-2 |       |       | -PDSC | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | nimum |
|       |       |       | H\_Ec | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> |       |
| II-2  |       |       | (dB   |       |       |       |       |       |
| -IV-1 |       |       | m/3.8 | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
| II-2  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| -IV-2 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | IV    |       | Î~or~ | \<    | \<    | \<    | \<    | Mi    |
|       |       |       | (dB   | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | nimum |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  |       |
|       |       |       |       | dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | II    | IV    | HS    | \     | \     | \     | \     | Mi    |
|       |       |       | -PDSC | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | nimum |
|       |       |       | H\_Ec | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> |       |
|       |       |       | (dB   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | IV    |       | Î~or~ | \<    | \<    | \<    | \<    | Mi    |
|       |       |       | (dB   | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | nimum |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  |       |
|       |       |       |       | dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| I-    | I     | I     | HS    | \     | \     | \     | \     | Mi    |
| 1-V-2 |       |       | -PDSC | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | nimum |
|       |       |       | H\_Ec | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> |       |
| I-    |       |       | (dB   |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2-V-1 |       |       | m/3.8 | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
| I-    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2-V-2 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | V     |       | Î~or~ | \<    | \<    | \<    | \<    | Mi    |
|       |       |       | (dB   | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | nimum |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  |       |
|       |       |       |       | dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | I     | V     | HS    | \     | \     | \     | \     | Mi    |
|       |       |       | -PDSC | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | nimum |
|       |       |       | H\_Ec | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> |       |
|       |       |       | (dB   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | V     |       | Î~or~ | \<    | \<    | \<    | \<    | Mi    |
|       |       |       | (dB   | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | nimum |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  |       |
|       |       |       |       | dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| I     | I     | I     | HS    | \     | \     | \     | \     | Mi    |
| -1-XX |       |       | -PDSC | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | nimum |
| XII-2 |       |       | H\_Ec | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> |       |
|       |       |       | (dB   |       |       |       |       |       |
| I     |       |       | m/3.8 | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB |       |
| -2-XX |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
| XII-1 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | XXXII |       | Îor   | \<REF | \<REF | \<REF | \<REF |       |
|       |       |       | (dB   | Îor\> | Îor\> | Îor\> | Îor\> |       |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  |       |
|       |       |       |       | dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| <REFS |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ENS\> |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \<    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| REFÎ~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| or~\> |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| refer |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| HS-   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| PDSCH |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \_Ec\ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| <REFS |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ENS\> |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| HS-PD |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SCH\< |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| REFÎ~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| or~\> |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| spec  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ified |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Table |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 6.    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2D.1. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.6.2D.

#### 6.5F.2.3 Minimum requirements (Narrow band blocking)

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.5F.5 and 6.5F.6. This requirement is
measure of a receiver's ability to receive a W-CDMA signal at its
assigned channel frequency in the presence of an unwanted narrow band
interferer at a frequency, which is less than the nominal channel
spacing.

Table 6.5F.5: Test parameters for narrow band blocking characteristics,
dual band 4C-HSDPA, single uplink operation

+---------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----------+
| Parameter                 | Unit | Band II, IV, V                  | Band VIII |
+---------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----------+
| I~blocking~ (GMSK)        | dBm  | -57                             | -56       |
+---------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----------+
| F~uw~ (offset)            | MHz  | ±2.7                            | ±2.8      |
|                           |      |                                 |           |
| (NOTE 2)                  |      |                                 |           |
+---------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----------+
| UE transmitted mean power | dBm  | 20 (for Power class 3 and 3bis) |           |
|                           |      |                                 |           |
|                           |      | 18 (for Power class 4)          |           |
+---------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----------+

> NOTE 1: I~blocking~ (GMSK) is an interfering signal as defined in TS
> 45.004.

NOTE 2: For dual band 4C-HSDPA, negative offset refers to the assigned
channel frequency of the lowest carrier frequency(ies) in each band, and
positive offset refers to the assigned channel frequency of the highest
carrier frequency(ies) in each band.

Table 6.5F.6: Narrow band blocking requirements, dual band 4C-HSDPA,
single uplink operation

+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| Dual     | DL Band | UL Band | HS-P     | Î~or~    | UL-DL    |
| band     |         |         | DSCH\_Ec | (dBm/    | carrier  |
| 4C-HSDPA |         |         | (dBm/    | 3.84MHz) | se       |
| Confi    |         |         | 3.84MHz) |          | paration |
| guration |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-       | VIII    | I       | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
| 2-VIII-1 |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
| I-       |         |         |          |          |          |
| 3-VIII-1 |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | VIII    | VIII    | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| I        | II      | II      | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
| I-1-IV-2 |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
| I        |         |         |          |          |          |
| I-2-IV-1 |         |         |          |          |          |
|          |         |         |          |          |          |
| I        |         |         |          |          |          |
| I-2-IV-2 |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | IV      |         | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | II      | IV      | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | IV      |         | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-1-V-2  | V       | I       | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
| I-2-V-1  |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
|          |         |         |          |          |          |
| I-2-V-2  |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | V       | V       | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+

> NOTE 3: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refer to the
> HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
> Table 6.2D.1 for dual band 4C-HSDPA.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.6.3D.1.

### 6.5F.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BLER of HS-PDSCH on each individual cell does not
exceed 0.1 for the parameters specified in table 6.5F.8, table 6.5F.9,
table 6.5F.10, table 6.5F.11, table 6.5F.12 and table 6.5F.13 for the DL
reference channel H-Set 1C specified in Annex C.8.1.1.

The lack of the blocking ability decreases the 4C-HSDPA coverage area
when other transmitter exists (except in the adjacent channels and
spurious response).

This test case tests only 4 carrier configurations.

### 6.5F.4 Method of test

#### 6.5F.4.1 Initial conditions

For in-band case:

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clauseG.2.4.

For out-of-band case:

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequency to be tested: 1 arbitrary frequency chosen from the low, mid
or high range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figureA.49.

2\) RF parameters are set up according to table 6.5F.8 through table
6.5F.13.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic 4C-HSDPA setup procedure
specified in TS34.108\[3\] sub clause 7.3.16, with exceptions for
information elements listed in Table 6.5F.5. With this exception, the
Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to algorithm 2.

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-test-loop-mode1-16 .H6}

Table 6.5F.7: Specific Message Contents for In-band blocking
characteristics for Single band 4C-HSDPA, Single uplink operation

  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                       Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2         
  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

#### 6.5F.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set the parameters of the CW generator or the interference signal
generator as shown in table 6.5F.8 and table 6.5F.9, for inblocking
measurements, Table 6.5F.10 and table 6.5F.11 for out of band
measurements and Table 6.5F.12 and table 6.5F.13 for narrow band
blocking. For table 6.5F.8 and 6.5F.9, the frequency step size is 1 MHz.

2\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.5F.8 through
table 6.5F.13, or send the power control commands (1dB step size should
be used.) to the UE until UE output power measured by Test System shall
be kept at the specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.

3\) Measure the BLER of HS-PDSCH received from the UE at the SS by
counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the UL HS-DPCCH (BLER =
(NACK + statDTX)/(NACK + statDTX + ACK)).

4\) For table 6.5F.9, table 6.5F.11 and table 6.5F.13, record the
frequencies for which BLER exceed the test requirements.

### 6.5F.5 Test requirements

For table 6.5F.8 and 6.5F.9, the measured BLER, derived in step 2),
shall not exceed 0.1 on each individual cell. For table 6.5F.10 and
6.5F.11, the measured BLER, derived in step 2) shall not exceed 0.1 on
each individual cell except for the spurious response frequencies,
recorded in step 3). The number of spurious response frequencies,
recorded in step 3) shall not exceed 24 for frequency range 1, 2 and 3.
The number of spurious response frequencies, recorded in step 3) shall
not exceed 8 for frequency range 4. For table 6.5F.12 and 6.5F.13, the
measured BLER, derived in step 2), shall not exceed 0.1 on each
individual cell. The minimum number of measurements required for a
statistically significant result to this test is clarified in annex
F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.0.

Table 6.5F.8: Test parameters for in-band blocking, dual band 4C-HSDPA,
single uplink operation

+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| Parameter           | Unit | Level               |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| I~blocking~ mean    | dBm  | -56                 | -44           |
| power (modulated)   |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~ offset        |      | =±10 MHz            | ≤-15 MHz      |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (NOTE 2)            |      |                     | &             |
|                     |      |                     |               |
|                     |      |                     | ≥15 MHz       |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 2102.4≤ f ≤2177.6   | 2095≤ f ≤2185 |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (Band I operation)  |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 1922.4≤ f ≤1997.6   | 1915≤ f ≤2005 |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (Band II operation) |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 2102.4≤ f ≤2162.6   | 2095≤ f ≤2170 |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (Band IV operation) |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 861.4≤ f ≤901.6     | 854≤ f ≤909   |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (Band V operation)  |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| Fuw                 | MHz  | 917.4≤ f ≤967.6     | 910 ≤ f ≤ 975 |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (Band VIII          |      |                     |               |
| operation)          |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 1444.4≤ f ≤1503.6   | 1437≤ f ≤1511 |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (Band XXXII         |      |                     |               |
| operation)          |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| UE transmitted mean | dBm  | 20 (for Power class |               |
| power               |      | 3 and 3bis)         |               |
|                     |      |                     |               |
|                     |      | 18 (for Power class |               |
|                     |      | 4)                  |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| NOTE 1: I~blocking~ |      |                     |               |
| (modulated)         |      |                     |               |
| consists of the     |      |                     |               |
| common channels     |      |                     |               |
| needed for tests as |      |                     |               |
| specified in Table  |      |                     |               |
| E.4.1 and 16        |      |                     |               |
| dedicated data      |      |                     |               |
| channels as         |      |                     |               |
| specified in Table  |      |                     |               |
| E.3.6.              |      |                     |               |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| NOTE 2: For dual    |      |                     |               |
| band 4C-HSDPA,      |      |                     |               |
| negative offset     |      |                     |               |
| refers to the       |      |                     |               |
| assigned channel    |      |                     |               |
| frequency of the    |      |                     |               |
| lowest carrier      |      |                     |               |
| frequenc(ies) in    |      |                     |               |
| each band, and      |      |                     |               |
| positive offset     |      |                     |               |
| refers to the       |      |                     |               |
| assigned channel    |      |                     |               |
| frequency of the    |      |                     |               |
| highest carrier     |      |                     |               |
| frequenc(ies) in    |      |                     |               |
| each band.          |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+

Table 6.5F.9: In-band blocking requirements, dual band 4C-HSDPA, single
uplink operation

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- --------- ---------------------------- --------------------- --------------------------
  Dual band 4C-HSDPA Configuration                                                                                                                            DL Band   UL Band   HS-PDSCH\_Ec (dBm/3.84MHz)   Î~or~ (dBm/3.84MHz)   UL-DL carrier separation
  I-3-VIII-1                                                                                                                                                  I         I         \<REFSENS\>+3 dB             \<REFÎ~or~\>+3 dB     Minimum
                                                                                                                                                              VIII                \<REFSENS\>+3 dB             \<REFÎ~or~\>+3 dB     Minimum
                                                                                                                                                              I         VIII      \<REFSENS\>+3 dB             \<REFÎ~or~\>+3 dB     Minimum
                                                                                                                                                              VIII                \<REFSENS\>+3 dB             \<REFÎ~or~\>+3 dB     Minimum
  II-2-IV-2                                                                                                                                                   II        II        \<REFSENS\>+3 dB             \<REFÎ~or~\>+3 dB     Minimum
                                                                                                                                                              IV                  \<REFSENS\>+3 dB             \<REFÎ~or~\>+3 dB     Minimum
                                                                                                                                                              II        IV        \<REFSENS\>+3 dB             \<REFÎ~or~\>+3 dB     Minimum
                                                                                                                                                              IV                  \<REFSENS\>+3 dB             \<REFÎ~or~\>+3 dB     Minimum
  I-2-V-2                                                                                                                                                     I         I         \<REFSENS\>+3 dB             \<REFÎ~or~\>+3 dB     Minimum
                                                                                                                                                              V                   \<REFSENS\>+3 dB             \<REFÎ~or~\>+3 dB     Minimum
                                                                                                                                                              I         V         \<REFSENS\>+3 dB             \<REFÎ~or~\>+3 dB     Minimum
                                                                                                                                                              V                   \<REFSENS\>+3 dB             \<REFÎ~or~\>+3 dB     Minimum
  NOTE: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refer to the HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in Table 6.2D.1 for dual band 4C-HSDPA.                                                                          
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- --------- ---------------------------- --------------------- --------------------------

Table 6.5F.10: Test parameters for out of band blocking, dual band
4C-HSDPA

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| P        | Unit     | F        | F        | F        | F        |
| arameter |          | requency | requency | requency | requency |
|          |          |          | range 2  | range 3  | range 4  |
|          |          | range 1  |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I~b      | dBm      | -44      | -30      | -15      | -15      |
| locking~ |          |          |          |          |          |
| (CW)     |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 865\< f  | 840\< f  | 1\< f    | \-       |
|          |          | \<910    | ≤865     | ≤840     |          |
| (Dual    |          |          |          |          |          |
| band     |          | 975\< f  | 1020≤ f  | 1045≤ f  |          |
| 4C-HSDPA |          | \<1020   | \<1045   | \<2025   |          |
| Confi    |          |          |          |          |          |
| guration |          | 2050\< f | 2025\< f | 2255\< f |          |
|          |          | \<2095   | ≤2050    | ≤ 12750  |          |
| I-2      |          |          |          |          |          |
| -VIII-1, |          | 2185\< f | 2230≤ f  |          |          |
| I-3      |          | \<2230   | \<2255   |          |          |
| -VIII-1) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1870\< f | 1845\< f | 1\< f    | 1850≤ f  |
|          |          | \<1915   | ≤1870    | ≤1845    | ≤1910    |
| (Dual    |          |          |          |          |          |
| band     |          | 2005\< f | 2215≤ f  | 2240≤ f  |          |
| 4C-HSDPA |          | \<2095   | \<2240   | \<12750  |          |
| Confi    |          |          |          |          |          |
| guration |          | 2170\< f |          |          |          |
| II       |          | \<2215   |          |          |          |
| -1-IV-2, |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| II       |          |          |          |          |          |
| -2-IV-1, |          |          |          |          |          |
| II       |          |          |          |          |          |
| -2-IV-2) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 809\< f  | 784\< f  | 1\< f    | 824 ≤ f  |
|          |          | \<854    | ≤809     | ≤784     | ≤ 849    |
| (Dual    |          |          |          |          |          |
| band     |          | 909\< f  | 954≤ f   | 979≤ f   |          |
| 4C-HSDPA |          | \<954    | \< 979   | \<2025   |          |
| Confi    |          |          |          |          |          |
| guration |          | 2050\< f | 2025\< f | 2255\< f |          |
| I-1-V-2, |          | \<2095   | ≤2050    | ≤12750   |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-V-1, |          | 2185\< f | 2230≤ f  |          |          |
| I-2-V-2) |          | \<2230   | \<2255   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1392\< f | 1367\< f | 1\< f    | \-       |
|          |          | \<1437   | ≤1392    | ≤1367    |          |
| (Dual    |          |          |          |          |          |
| band     |          | 1511\< f | 1556≤ f  | 1581≤ f  |          |
| 4C-HSDPA |          | \<1556   | \<1581   | \<2025   |          |
| Confi    |          |          |          |          |          |
| guration |          | 2050\< f | 2025\< f | 2255\< f |          |
| I-1-     |          | \<2095   | ≤2050    | ≤ 12750  |          |
| XXXII-2, |          |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-     |          | 2185\< f | 2230≤ f  |          |          |
| XXXII-1) |          | \<2230   | \<2255   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| UE       | dBm      | 20 (for  |          |          |          |
| tra      |          | Power    |          |          |          |
| nsmitted |          | class 3  |          |          |          |
| mean     |          | and      |          |          |          |
| power    |          | 3bis)    |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          | 18 (for  |          |          |          |
|          |          | Power    |          |          |          |
|          |          | class 4) |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Dual     | For      |          |          |          |          |
| band     | 910≤f    |          |          |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA | ≤975 MHz |          |          |          |          |
| Confi    | and      |          |          |          |          |
| guration | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
|          | ≤2185    |          |          |          |          |
| I-2      | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
| -VIII-1, | app      |          |          |          |          |
| I-       | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
| 3-VIII-1 | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | \[       |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4D.2\] |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5F.2.1 |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Dual     | For      |          |          |          |          |
| band     | 1915≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA | ≤2005    |          |          |          |          |
| Confi    | MHz and  |          |          |          |          |
| guration | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| II       | ≤2070    |          |          |          |          |
| -1-IV-2, | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
| II       | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
| -2-IV-1, | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
| I        | blocking |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-IV-2 | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | \[       |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4D.2\] |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5F.2.1 |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Dual     | For      |          |          |          |          |
| band     | 8        |          |          |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA | 54≤f≤909 |          |          |          |          |
| Confi    | MHz and  |          |          |          |          |
| guration | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| I-1-V-2, | ≤2185    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-V-1, | app      |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-V-2  | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | \[       |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4D.2\] |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5F.2.1 |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Dual     | For      |          |          |          |          |
| band     | 1437≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA | ≤1511    |          |          |          |          |
| Confi    | MHz and  |          |          |          |          |
| guration | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| I-1-     | ≤2185    |          |          |          |          |
| XXXII-2, | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
| I-2      | app      |          |          |          |          |
| -XXXII-1 | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | \[       |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4D.2\] |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.5F.2.1 |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

Table 6.5F.11: Out of band blocking requirements, dual band 4C-HSDPA

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Dual  | DL    | UL    | Para  | Freq  | Freq  | Freq  | Freq  | UL-DL |
| band  | Band  | Band  | meter | uency | uency | uency | uency | ca    |
| 4C-   |       |       |       | range | range | range | range | rrier |
| HSDPA |       |       |       | 1     | 2     | 3     | 4     | separ |
| Con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |
| figur |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| I-3-V | I     | I     | HS    | \     | \     | \     | \     | Mi    |
| III-1 |       |       | -PDSC | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | nimum |
|       |       |       | H\_Ec | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> |       |
|       |       |       | (dB   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | VIII  |       | Î~or~ | \<    | \<    | \<    | \<    | Mi    |
|       |       |       | (dB   | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | nimum |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  |       |
|       |       |       |       | dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | I     | VIII  | HS    | \     | \     | \     | \     | Mi    |
|       |       |       | -PDSC | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | nimum |
|       |       |       | H\_Ec | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> |       |
|       |       |       | (dB   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | VIII  |       | Î~or~ | \<    | \<    | \<    | \<    | Mi    |
|       |       |       | (dB   | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | nimum |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  |       |
|       |       |       |       | dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| II-2  | II    | II    | HS    | \     | \     | \     | \     | Mi    |
| -IV-2 |       |       | -PDSC | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | nimum |
|       |       |       | H\_Ec | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> |       |
|       |       |       | (dB   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | IV    |       | Î~or~ | \<    | \<    | \<    | \<    | Mi    |
|       |       |       | (dB   | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | nimum |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  |       |
|       |       |       |       | dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | II    | IV    | HS    | \     | \     | \     | \     | Mi    |
|       |       |       | -PDSC | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | nimum |
|       |       |       | H\_Ec | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> |       |
|       |       |       | (dB   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | IV    |       | Î~or~ | \<    | \<    | \<    | \<    | Mi    |
|       |       |       | (dB   | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | nimum |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  |       |
|       |       |       |       | dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| I-    | I     | I     | HS    | \     | \     | \     | \     | Mi    |
| 2-V-2 |       |       | -PDSC | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | nimum |
|       |       |       | H\_Ec | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> |       |
|       |       |       | (dB   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | V     |       | Î~or~ | \<    | \<    | \<    | \<    | Mi    |
|       |       |       | (dB   | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | nimum |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  |       |
|       |       |       |       | dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | I     | V     | HS    | \     | \     | \     | \     | Mi    |
|       |       |       | -PDSC | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | nimum |
|       |       |       | H\_Ec | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> |       |
|       |       |       | (dB   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | V     |       | Î~or~ | \<    | \<    | \<    | \<    | Mi    |
|       |       |       | (dB   | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | nimum |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  |       |
|       |       |       |       | dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| <REFS |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ENS\> |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \<    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| REFÎ~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| or~\> |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| refer |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| HS-   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| PDSCH |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \_Ec\ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| <REFS |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ENS\> |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| HS-PD |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SCH\< |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| REFÎ~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| or~\> |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| spec  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ified |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Table |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 6.    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2D.1. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

Table 6.5F.12: Test parameters for narrow band blocking characteristics,
dual band 4C-HSDPA, single uplink operation

+---------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----------+
| Parameter                 | Unit | Band II, IV, V                  | Band VIII |
+---------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----------+
| I~blocking~ (GMSK)        | dBm  | -57                             | -56       |
+---------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----------+
| F~uw~ (offset)            | MHz  | ±2.7                            | ±2.8      |
|                           |      |                                 |           |
| (NOTE 2)                  |      |                                 |           |
+---------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----------+
| UE transmitted mean power | dBm  | 20 (for Power class 3 and 3bis) |           |
|                           |      |                                 |           |
|                           |      | 18 (for Power class 4)          |           |
+---------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----------+

> NOTE 5: I~blocking~ (GMSK) is an interfering signal as defined in TS
> 45.004

NOTE 6: For dual band 4C-HSDPA, negative offset refers to the assigned
channel frequency of the lowest carrier frequency(ies) in each band, and
positive offset refers to the assigned channel frequency of the highest
carrier frequency(ies) in each band.

Table 6.5F.13: Narrow band blocking requirements, dual band 4C-HSDPA,
single uplink operation

+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| Dual     | DL Band | UL Band | HS-P     | Î~or~    | UL-DL    |
| band     |         |         | DSCH\_Ec | (dBm/    | carrier  |
| 4C-HSDPA |         |         | (dBm/    | 3.84MHz) | se       |
| Confi    |         |         | 3.84MHz) |          | paration |
| guration |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-       | VIII    | I       | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
| 2-VIII-1 |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
| I-       |         |         |          |          |          |
| 3-VIII-1 |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | VIII    | VIII    | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| I        | II      | II      | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
| I-1-IV-2 |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
| I        |         |         |          |          |          |
| I-2-IV-1 |         |         |          |          |          |
|          |         |         |          |          |          |
| I        |         |         |          |          |          |
| I-2-IV-2 |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | IV      |         | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | II      | IV      | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | IV      |         | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-1-V-2  | V       | I       | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
| I-2-V-1  |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
|          |         |         |          |          |          |
| I-2-V-2  |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | V       | V       | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+

NOTE 7: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refer to the
HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
Table 6.2D.1 for dual band 4C-HSDPA.

NOTE 8: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

6.5FA Blocking Characteristics for single Uplink dual band 4C-HSDPA (3 carrier)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 6.5FA.1 Definition and applicability

The blocking characteristic is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to
receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency in the
presence of an unwanted interferer on frequencies other than those of
the spurious response or the adjacent channels, without this unwanted
input signal causing a degradation of the performance of the receiver
beyond a specified limit. The blocking performance shall apply at all
frequencies except those at which a spurious response occur.

The requirements in clause 6.5FA.2.1 and 6.5FA.2.2 and this test apply
for Release 10 and later releases to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE
that support dual band single uplink 4C-HSDPA and HS-DSCH categories 29
to 32.

Dual band 4C-HSDPA is designed to operate in configurations specified in
clause 4.2.

### 6.5FA.2 Minimum Requirements

#### 6.5FA.2.1 Minimum Requirements (In-band blocking)

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.5FA.1 and 6.5FA.2. In-band blocking is
defined for an unwanted interfering signal falling into the UE receive
band or into the first 15 MHz below or above the UE receive band.

Table 6.5FA.1: Test parameters for in-band blocking, dual band 4C-HSDPA,
single uplink operation

+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| Parameter           | Unit | Level               |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| I~blocking~ mean    | dBm  | -56                 | -44           |
| power (modulated)   |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~ offset        |      | =±10 MHz            | ≤-15 MHz      |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (NOTE 2)            |      |                     | &             |
|                     |      |                     |               |
|                     |      |                     | ≥15 MHz       |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 2102.4≤ f ≤2177.6   | 2095≤ f ≤2185 |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (Band I operation)  |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 1922.4≤ f ≤1997.6   | 1915≤ f ≤2005 |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (Band II operation) |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 2102.4≤ f ≤2162.6   | 2095≤ f ≤2170 |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (Band IV operation) |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 861.4≤ f ≤901.6     | 854≤ f ≤909   |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (Band V operation)  |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| Fuw                 | MHz  | 917.4≤ f ≤967.6     | 910 ≤ f ≤ 975 |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (Band VIII          |      |                     |               |
| operation)          |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 1444.4≤ f ≤1503.6   | 1437≤ f ≤1511 |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (Band XXXII         |      |                     |               |
| operation)          |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| UE transmitted mean | dBm  | 20 (for Power class |               |
| power               |      | 3 and 3bis)         |               |
|                     |      |                     |               |
|                     |      | 18 (for Power class |               |
|                     |      | 4)                  |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| NOTE 1: I~blocking~ |      |                     |               |
| (modulated)         |      |                     |               |
| consists of the     |      |                     |               |
| common channels     |      |                     |               |
| needed for tests as |      |                     |               |
| specified in Table  |      |                     |               |
| E.4.1 and 16        |      |                     |               |
| dedicated data      |      |                     |               |
| channels as         |      |                     |               |
| specified in Table  |      |                     |               |
| E.3.6.              |      |                     |               |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| NOTE 2: For dual    |      |                     |               |
| band 4C-HSDPA,      |      |                     |               |
| negative offset     |      |                     |               |
| refers to the       |      |                     |               |
| assigned channel    |      |                     |               |
| frequency of the    |      |                     |               |
| lowest carrier      |      |                     |               |
| frequenc(ies) in    |      |                     |               |
| each band, and      |      |                     |               |
| positive offset     |      |                     |               |
| refers to the       |      |                     |               |
| assigned channel    |      |                     |               |
| frequency of the    |      |                     |               |
| highest carrier     |      |                     |               |
| frequenc(ies) in    |      |                     |               |
| each band.          |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+

Table 6.5FA.2: In-band blocking requirements, dual band 4C-HSDPA, single
uplink operation

+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| Dual     | DL Band | UL Band | HS-P     | Î~or~    | UL-DL    |
| band     |         |         | DSCH\_Ec | (dBm/    | carrier  |
| 4C-HSDPA |         |         | (dBm/    | 3.84MHz) | se       |
| Confi    |         |         | 3.84MHz) |          | paration |
| guration |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-       | I       | I       | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
| 2-VIII-1 |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
| I-       |         |         |          |          |          |
| 3-VIII-1 |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | VIII    |         | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | I       | VIII    | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | VIII    |         | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| I        | II      | II      | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
| I-1-IV-2 |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
| I        |         |         |          |          |          |
| I-2-IV-1 |         |         |          |          |          |
|          |         |         |          |          |          |
| I        |         |         |          |          |          |
| I-2-IV-2 |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | IV      |         | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | II      | IV      | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | IV      |         | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-1-V-2  | I       | I       | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
| I-2-V-1  |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
|          |         |         |          |          |          |
| I-2-V-2  |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | V       |         | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | I       | V       | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | V       |         | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-1      | I       | I       | \<REF    | \<RE     | Minimum  |
| -XXXII-2 |         |         | SENS\>+3 | FÎor\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
| I-2      |         |         |          |          |          |
| -XXXII-1 |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | XXXII   |         | \<RE     | \<R      | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | FSENS\>+ | EFÎor\>+ |          |
|          |         |         | 3 dB     | 3dB      |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE:    |         |         |          |          |          |
| \<R      |         |         |          |          |          |
| EFSENS\> |         |         |          |          |          |
| and      |         |         |          |          |          |
| \<RE     |         |         |          |          |          |
| FÎ~o~r\> |         |         |          |          |          |
| refer to |         |         |          |          |          |
| the      |         |         |          |          |          |
| HS-PDSC  |         |         |          |          |          |
| H\_Ec\<R |         |         |          |          |          |
| EFSENS\> |         |         |          |          |          |
| and the  |         |         |          |          |          |
| HS-P     |         |         |          |          |          |
| DSCH\<RE |         |         |          |          |          |
| FÎ~o~r\> |         |         |          |          |          |
| as       |         |         |          |          |          |
| s        |         |         |          |          |          |
| pecified |         |         |          |          |          |
| in Table |         |         |          |          |          |
| 6.2D.1   |         |         |          |          |          |
| for dual |         |         |          |          |          |
| band     |         |         |          |          |          |
| 4        |         |         |          |          |          |
| C-HSDPA. |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.6.1D.1.

#### 6.5FA.2.2 Minimum requirements (Out of-band blocking)

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.5FA.3 and 6.5FA.4. Out-of-band band
blocking is defined for an unwanted interfering signal falling more than
15 MHz below or above the UE receive band.

For Table 6.5FA.3 in frequency range 1, 2 and 3, up to 24 exceptions per
received cell are allowed for spurious response frequencies in each
assigned frequency channel when measured using a 1 MHz step size. For
these exceptions the requirements of clause 6.6DA spurious response are
applicable.

For Table 6.5FA.4 in frequency range 4, up to 8 exceptions per received
cell are allowed for spurious response frequencies in each assigned
frequency channel when measured using a 1 MHz step size. For these
exceptions the requirements of clause 6.6DA spurious response are
applicable.

Table 6.5FA.3: Test parameters for out of band blocking, dual band
4C-HSDPA

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| P        | Unit     | F        | F        | F        | F        |
| arameter |          | requency | requency | requency | requency |
|          |          |          | range 2  | range 3  | range 4  |
|          |          | range 1  |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I~b      | dBm      | -44      | -30      | -15      | -15      |
| locking~ |          |          |          |          |          |
| (CW)     |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 865\< f  | 840\< f  | 1\< f    | \-       |
|          |          | \<910    | ≤865     | ≤840     |          |
| (Dual    |          |          |          |          |          |
| band     |          | 975\< f  | 1020≤ f  | 1045≤ f  |          |
| 4C-HSDPA |          | \<1020   | \<1045   | \<2025   |          |
| Confi    |          |          |          |          |          |
| guration |          | 2050\< f | 2025\< f | 2255\< f |          |
|          |          | \<2095   | ≤2050    | ≤ 12750  |          |
| I-2      |          |          |          |          |          |
| -VIII-1, |          | 2185\< f | 2230≤ f  |          |          |
| I-3      |          | \<2230   | \<2255   |          |          |
| -VIII-1) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1870\< f | 1845\< f | 1\< f    | 1850≤ f  |
|          |          | \<1915   | ≤1870    | ≤1845    | ≤1910    |
| (Dual    |          |          |          |          |          |
| band     |          | 2005\< f | 2215≤ f  | 2240≤ f  |          |
| 4C-HSDPA |          | \<2095   | \<2240   | \<12750  |          |
| Confi    |          |          |          |          |          |
| guration |          | 2170\< f |          |          |          |
| II       |          | \<2215   |          |          |          |
| -1-IV-2, |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| II       |          |          |          |          |          |
| -2-IV-1, |          |          |          |          |          |
| II       |          |          |          |          |          |
| -2-IV-2) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 809\< f  | 784\< f  | 1\< f    | 824 ≤ f  |
|          |          | \<854    | ≤809     | ≤784     | ≤ 849    |
| (Dual    |          |          |          |          |          |
| band     |          | 909\< f  | 954≤ f   | 979≤ f   |          |
| 4C-HSDPA |          | \<954    | \< 979   | \<2025   |          |
| Confi    |          |          |          |          |          |
| guration |          | 2050\< f | 2025\< f | 2255\< f |          |
| I-1-V-2, |          | \<2095   | ≤2050    | ≤12750   |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-V-1, |          | 2185\< f | 2230≤ f  |          |          |
| I-2-V-2) |          | \<2230   | \<2255   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1392\< f | 1367\< f | 1\< f    | \-       |
|          |          | \<1437   | ≤1392    | ≤1367    |          |
| (Dual    |          |          |          |          |          |
| band     |          | 1511\< f | 1556≤ f  | 1581≤ f  |          |
| 4C-HSDPA |          | \<1556   | \<1581   | \<2025   |          |
| Confi    |          |          |          |          |          |
| guration |          | 2050\< f | 2025\< f | 2255\< f |          |
| I-1-     |          | \<2095   | ≤2050    | ≤ 12750  |          |
| XXXII-2, |          |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-     |          | 2185\< f | 2230≤ f  |          |          |
| XXXII-1) |          | \<2230   | \<2255   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| UE       | dBm      | 20 (for  |          |          |          |
| tra      |          | Power    |          |          |          |
| nsmitted |          | class 3  |          |          |          |
| mean     |          | and      |          |          |          |
| power    |          | 3bis)    |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          | 18 (for  |          |          |          |
|          |          | Power    |          |          |          |
|          |          | class 4) |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Dual     | For      |          |          |          |          |
| band     | 910≤f    |          |          |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA | ≤975 MHz |          |          |          |          |
| Confi    | and      |          |          |          |          |
| guration | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
|          | ≤2185    |          |          |          |          |
| I-2      | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
| -VIII-1, | app      |          |          |          |          |
| I-       | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
| 3-VIII-1 | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | \[       |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4D.2\] |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6        |          |          |          |          |
|          | .5FA.2.1 |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Dual     | For      |          |          |          |          |
| band     | 1915≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA | ≤2005    |          |          |          |          |
| Confi    | MHz and  |          |          |          |          |
| guration | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| II       | ≤2070    |          |          |          |          |
| -1-IV-2, | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
| II       | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
| -2-IV-1, | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
| I        | blocking |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-IV-2 | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | \[       |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4D.2\] |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6        |          |          |          |          |
|          | .5FA.2.1 |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Dual     | For      |          |          |          |          |
| band     | 8        |          |          |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA | 54≤f≤909 |          |          |          |          |
| Confi    | MHz and  |          |          |          |          |
| guration | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| I-1-V-2, | ≤2185    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-V-1, | app      |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-V-2  | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | \[       |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4D.2\] |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6        |          |          |          |          |
|          | .5FA.2.1 |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Dual     | For      |          |          |          |          |
| band     | 1437≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA | ≤1511    |          |          |          |          |
| Confi    | MHz and  |          |          |          |          |
| guration | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| I-1-     | ≤2185    |          |          |          |          |
| XXXII-2, | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
| I-2      | app      |          |          |          |          |
| -XXXII-1 | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | \[       |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4D.2\] |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6        |          |          |          |          |
|          | .5FA.2.1 |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

Table 6.5FA.4: Out of band blocking requirements, dual band 4C-HSDPA

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Dual  | DL    | UL    | Para  | Freq  | Freq  | Freq  | Freq  | UL-DL |
| band  | Band  | Band  | meter | uency | uency | uency | uency | ca    |
| 4C-   |       |       |       | range | range | range | range | rrier |
| HSDPA |       |       |       | 1     | 2     | 3     | 4     | separ |
| Con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |
| figur |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| I-2-V | I     | I     | HS    | \     | \     | \     | \     | Mi    |
| III-1 |       |       | -PDSC | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | nimum |
|       |       |       | H\_Ec | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> |       |
| I-3-V |       |       | (dB   |       |       |       |       |       |
| III-1 |       |       | m/3.8 | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | VIII  |       | Î~or~ | \<    | \<    | \<    | \<    | Mi    |
|       |       |       | (dB   | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | nimum |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  |       |
|       |       |       |       | dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | I     | VIII  | HS    | \     | \     | \     | \     | Mi    |
|       |       |       | -PDSC | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | nimum |
|       |       |       | H\_Ec | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> |       |
|       |       |       | (dB   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | VIII  |       | Î~or~ | \<    | \<    | \<    | \<    | Mi    |
|       |       |       | (dB   | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | nimum |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  |       |
|       |       |       |       | dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| II-1  | II    | II    | HS    | \     | \     | \     | \     | Mi    |
| -IV-2 |       |       | -PDSC | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | nimum |
|       |       |       | H\_Ec | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> |       |
| II-2  |       |       | (dB   |       |       |       |       |       |
| -IV-1 |       |       | m/3.8 | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
| II-2  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| -IV-2 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | IV    |       | Î~or~ | \<    | \<    | \<    | \<    | Mi    |
|       |       |       | (dB   | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | nimum |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  |       |
|       |       |       |       | dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | II    | IV    | HS    | \     | \     | \     | \     | Mi    |
|       |       |       | -PDSC | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | nimum |
|       |       |       | H\_Ec | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> |       |
|       |       |       | (dB   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | IV    |       | Î~or~ | \<    | \<    | \<    | \<    | Mi    |
|       |       |       | (dB   | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | nimum |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  |       |
|       |       |       |       | dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| I-    | I     | I     | HS    | \     | \     | \     | \     | Mi    |
| 1-V-2 |       |       | -PDSC | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | nimum |
|       |       |       | H\_Ec | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> |       |
| I-    |       |       | (dB   |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2-V-1 |       |       | m/3.8 | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
| I-    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2-V-2 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | V     |       | Î~or~ | \<    | \<    | \<    | \<    | Mi    |
|       |       |       | (dB   | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | nimum |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  |       |
|       |       |       |       | dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | I     | V     | HS    | \     | \     | \     | \     | Mi    |
|       |       |       | -PDSC | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | nimum |
|       |       |       | H\_Ec | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> |       |
|       |       |       | (dB   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | V     |       | Î~or~ | \<    | \<    | \<    | \<    | Mi    |
|       |       |       | (dB   | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | nimum |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  |       |
|       |       |       |       | dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| I     | I     | I     | HS    | \     | \     | \     | \     | Mi    |
| -1-XX |       |       | -PDSC | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | nimum |
| XII-2 |       |       | H\_Ec | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> |       |
|       |       |       | (dB   |       |       |       |       |       |
| I     |       |       | m/3.8 | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB |       |
| -2-XX |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
| XII-1 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | XXXII |       | Îor   | \<REF | \<REF | \<REF | \<REF |       |
|       |       |       | (dB   | Îor\> | Îor\> | Îor\> | Îor\> |       |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  |       |
|       |       |       |       | dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| <REFS |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ENS\> |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \<    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| REFÎ~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| or~\> |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| refer |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| HS-   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| PDSCH |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \_Ec\ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| <REFS |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ENS\> |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| HS-PD |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SCH\< |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| REFÎ~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| or~\> |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| spec  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ified |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Table |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 6.2   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| DA.1. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.6.2DA.

#### 6.5FA.2.3 Minimum requirements (Narrow band blocking)

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.5FA.5 and 6.5FA.6. This requirement is
measure of a receiver's ability to receive a W-CDMA signal at its
assigned channel frequency in the presence of an unwanted narrow band
interferer at a frequency, which is less than the nominal channel
spacing.

Table 6.5FA.5: Test parameters for narrow band blocking characteristics,
dual band 4C-HSDPA, single uplink operation

+---------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----------+
| Parameter                 | Unit | Band II, IV, V                  | Band VIII |
+---------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----------+
| I~blocking~ (GMSK)        | dBm  | -57                             | -56       |
+---------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----------+
| F~uw~ (offset)            | MHz  | ±2.7                            | ±2.8      |
|                           |      |                                 |           |
| (NOTE 2)                  |      |                                 |           |
+---------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----------+
| UE transmitted mean power | dBm  | 20 (for Power class 3 and 3bis) |           |
|                           |      |                                 |           |
|                           |      | 18 (for Power class 4)          |           |
+---------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----------+

> NOTE 1: I~blocking~ (GMSK) is an interfering signal as defined in TS
> 45.004.

NOTE 2: For dual band 4C-HSDPA, negative offset refers to the assigned
channel frequency of the lowest carrier frequency(ies) in each band, and
positive offset refers to the assigned channel frequency of the highest
carrier frequency(ies) in each band.

Table 6.5FA.6: Narrow band blocking requirements, dual band 4C-HSDPA,
single uplink operation

+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| Dual     | DL Band | UL Band | HS-P     | Î~or~    | UL-DL    |
| band     |         |         | DSCH\_Ec | (dBm/    | carrier  |
| 4C-HSDPA |         |         | (dBm/    | 3.84MHz) | se       |
| Confi    |         |         | 3.84MHz) |          | paration |
| guration |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-       | VIII    | I       | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
| 2-VIII-1 |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
| I-       |         |         |          |          |          |
| 3-VIII-1 |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | VIII    | VIII    | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| I        | II      | II      | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
| I-1-IV-2 |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
| I        |         |         |          |          |          |
| I-2-IV-1 |         |         |          |          |          |
|          |         |         |          |          |          |
| I        |         |         |          |          |          |
| I-2-IV-2 |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | IV      |         | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | II      | IV      | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | IV      |         | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-1-V-2  | V       | I       | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
| I-2-V-1  |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
|          |         |         |          |          |          |
| I-2-V-2  |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | V       | V       | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+

> NOTE 3: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refer to the
> HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
> Table 6.2DA.1 for dual band 4C-HSDPA.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.6.3D.1.

### 6.5FA.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BLER of HS-PDSCH on each individual cell does not
exceed 0.1 for the parameters specified in table 6.5FA.8, table 6.5FA.9,
table 6.5FA.10, table 6.5FA.11, table 6.5FA.12 and table 6.5FA.13 for
the DL reference channel H-Set 1B specified in Annex C.8.1.1.

The lack of the blocking ability decreases the 4C-HSDPA coverage area
when other transmitter exists (except in the adjacent channels and
spurious response).

This test case tests only 3 carrier configurations.

### 6.5FA.4 Method of test

#### 6.5FA.4.1 Initial conditions

For in-band case:

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clauseG.2.4.

For out-of-band case:

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequency to be tested: 1 arbitrary frequency chosen from the low, mid
or high range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figureA.49.

2\) RF parameters are set up according to table 6.5FA.8 through table
6.5FA.13.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic 4C-HSDPA setup procedure
specified in TS34.108\[3\] sub clause 7.3.16, with exceptions for
information elements listed in Table 6.5FA.5. With this exception, the
Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to algorithm 2.

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-test-loop-mode1-17 .H6}

Table 6.5FA.7: Specific Message Contents for In-band blocking
characteristics for Single band 4C-HSDPA, Single uplink operation

  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                       Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2         
  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

#### 6.5FA.4.2 Procedure

1\) Set the parameters of the CW generator or the interference signal
generator as shown in table 6.5FA.8 and table 6.5FA.9, for inblocking
measurements, Table 6.5FA.10 and table 6.5FA.11 for out of band
measurements and Table 6.5FA.12 and table 6.5FA.13 for narrow band
blocking. For table 6.5FA.8 and 6.5FA.9, the frequency step size is 1
MHz.

2\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.5FA.8 through
table 6.5FA.13, or send the power control commands (1dB step size should
be used.) to the UE until UE output power measured by Test System shall
be kept at the specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.

3\) Measure the BLER of HS-PDSCH received from the UE at the SS by
counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the UL HS-DPCCH (BLER =
(NACK + statDTX)/(NACK + statDTX + ACK)).

4\) For table 6.5FA.9, table 6.5FA.11 and table 6.5FA.13, record the
frequencies for which BLER exceed the test requirements.

### 6.5FA.5 Test requirements

For table 6.5FA.8 and 6.5FA.9, the measured BLER, derived in step 2),
shall not exceed 0.1 on each individual cell. For table 6.5FA.10 and
6.5FA.11, the measured BLER, derived in step 2) shall not exceed 0.1 on
each individual cell except for the spurious response frequencies,
recorded in step 3). The number of spurious response frequencies,
recorded in step 3) shall not exceed 24 for frequency range 1, 2 and 3.
The number of spurious response frequencies, recorded in step 3) shall
not exceed 8 for frequency range 4. For table 6.5FA.12 and 6.5FA.13, the
measured BLER, derived in step 2), shall not exceed 0.1 on each
individual cell. The minimum number of measurements required for a
statistically significant result to this test is clarified in annex
F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.0.

Table 6.5FA.8: Test parameters for in-band blocking, dual band 4C-HSDPA,
single uplink operation

+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| Parameter           | Unit | Level               |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| I~blocking~ mean    | dBm  | -56                 | -44           |
| power (modulated)   |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~ offset        |      | =±10 MHz            | ≤-15 MHz      |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (NOTE 2)            |      |                     | &             |
|                     |      |                     |               |
|                     |      |                     | ≥15 MHz       |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 2102.4≤ f ≤2177.6   | 2095≤ f ≤2185 |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (Band I operation)  |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 1922.4≤ f ≤1997.6   | 1915≤ f ≤2005 |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (Band II operation) |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 2102.4≤ f ≤2162.6   | 2095≤ f ≤2170 |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (Band IV operation) |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 861.4≤ f ≤901.6     | 854≤ f ≤909   |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (Band V operation)  |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| Fuw                 | MHz  | 917.4≤ f ≤967.6     | 910 ≤ f ≤ 975 |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (Band VIII          |      |                     |               |
| operation)          |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 1444.4≤ f ≤1503.6   | 1437≤ f ≤1511 |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| (Band XXXII         |      |                     |               |
| operation)          |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| UE transmitted mean | dBm  | 20 (for Power class |               |
| power               |      | 3 and 3bis)         |               |
|                     |      |                     |               |
|                     |      | 18 (for Power class |               |
|                     |      | 4)                  |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+
| NOTE 1: I~blocking~ |      |                     |               |
| (modulated)         |      |                     |               |
| consists of the     |      |                     |               |
| common channels     |      |                     |               |
| needed for tests as |      |                     |               |
| specified in Table  |      |                     |               |
| E.4.1 and 16        |      |                     |               |
| dedicated data      |      |                     |               |
| channels as         |      |                     |               |
| specified in Table  |      |                     |               |
| E.3.6.              |      |                     |               |
|                     |      |                     |               |
| NOTE 2: For dual    |      |                     |               |
| band 4C-HSDPA,      |      |                     |               |
| negative offset     |      |                     |               |
| refers to the       |      |                     |               |
| assigned channel    |      |                     |               |
| frequency of the    |      |                     |               |
| lowest carrier      |      |                     |               |
| frequenc(ies) in    |      |                     |               |
| each band, and      |      |                     |               |
| positive offset     |      |                     |               |
| refers to the       |      |                     |               |
| assigned channel    |      |                     |               |
| frequency of the    |      |                     |               |
| highest carrier     |      |                     |               |
| frequenc(ies) in    |      |                     |               |
| each band.          |      |                     |               |
+---------------------+------+---------------------+---------------+

Table 6.5FA.9: In-band blocking requirements, dual band 4C-HSDPA, single
uplink operation

+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| Dual     | DL Band | UL Band | HS-P     | Î~or~    | UL-DL    |
| band     |         |         | DSCH\_Ec | (dBm/    | carrier  |
| 4C-HSDPA |         |         | (dBm/    | 3.84MHz) | se       |
| Confi    |         |         | 3.84MHz) |          | paration |
| guration |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-       | I       | I       | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
| 2-VIII-1 |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | VIII    |         | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | I       | VIII    | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | VIII    |         | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| I        | II      | II      | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
| I-1-IV-2 |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
| I        |         |         |          |          |          |
| I-2-IV-1 |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | IV      |         | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | II      | IV      | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | IV      |         | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-1-V-2  | I       | I       | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
| I-2-V-1  |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | V       |         | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | I       | V       | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | V       |         | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-1      | I       | I       | \<REF    | \<RE     | Minimum  |
| -XXXII-2 |         |         | SENS\>+3 | FÎor\>+3 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
| I-2      |         |         |          |          |          |
| -XXXII-1 |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | XXXII   |         | \<RE     | \<R      | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | FSENS\>+ | EFÎor\>+ |          |
|          |         |         | 3 dB     | 3dB      |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE:    |         |         |          |          |          |
| \<R      |         |         |          |          |          |
| EFSENS\> |         |         |          |          |          |
| and      |         |         |          |          |          |
| \<RE     |         |         |          |          |          |
| FÎ~o~r\> |         |         |          |          |          |
| refer to |         |         |          |          |          |
| the      |         |         |          |          |          |
| HS-PDSC  |         |         |          |          |          |
| H\_Ec\<R |         |         |          |          |          |
| EFSENS\> |         |         |          |          |          |
| and the  |         |         |          |          |          |
| HS-P     |         |         |          |          |          |
| DSCH\<RE |         |         |          |          |          |
| FÎ~o~r\> |         |         |          |          |          |
| as       |         |         |          |          |          |
| s        |         |         |          |          |          |
| pecified |         |         |          |          |          |
| in Table |         |         |          |          |          |
| 6.2D.1   |         |         |          |          |          |
| for dual |         |         |          |          |          |
| band     |         |         |          |          |          |
| 4        |         |         |          |          |          |
| C-HSDPA. |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+

Table 6.5FA.10: Test parameters for out of band blocking, dual band
4C-HSDPA

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| P        | Unit     | F        | F        | F        | F        |
| arameter |          | requency | requency | requency | requency |
|          |          |          | range 2  | range 3  | range 4  |
|          |          | range 1  |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I~b      | dBm      | -44      | -30      | -15      | -15      |
| locking~ |          |          |          |          |          |
| (CW)     |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 865\< f  | 840\< f  | 1\< f    | \-       |
|          |          | \<910    | ≤865     | ≤840     |          |
| (Dual    |          |          |          |          |          |
| band     |          | 975\< f  | 1020≤ f  | 1045≤ f  |          |
| 4C-HSDPA |          | \<1020   | \<1045   | \<2025   |          |
| Confi    |          |          |          |          |          |
| guration |          | 2050\< f | 2025\< f | 2255\< f |          |
|          |          | \<2095   | ≤2050    | ≤ 12750  |          |
| I-2      |          |          |          |          |          |
| -VIII-1, |          | 2185\< f | 2230≤ f  |          |          |
| I-3      |          | \<2230   | \<2255   |          |          |
| -VIII-1) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1870\< f | 1845\< f | 1\< f    | 1850≤ f  |
|          |          | \<1915   | ≤1870    | ≤1845    | ≤1910    |
| (Dual    |          |          |          |          |          |
| band     |          | 2005\< f | 2215≤ f  | 2240≤ f  |          |
| 4C-HSDPA |          | \<2095   | \<2240   | \<12750  |          |
| Confi    |          |          |          |          |          |
| guration |          | 2170\< f |          |          |          |
| II       |          | \<2215   |          |          |          |
| -1-IV-2, |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| II       |          |          |          |          |          |
| -2-IV-1, |          |          |          |          |          |
| II       |          |          |          |          |          |
| -2-IV-2) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 809\< f  | 784\< f  | 1\< f    | 824 ≤ f  |
|          |          | \<854    | ≤809     | ≤784     | ≤ 849    |
| (Dual    |          |          |          |          |          |
| band     |          | 909\< f  | 954≤ f   | 979≤ f   |          |
| 4C-HSDPA |          | \<954    | \< 979   | \<2025   |          |
| Confi    |          |          |          |          |          |
| guration |          | 2050\< f | 2025\< f | 2255\< f |          |
| I-1-V-2, |          | \<2095   | ≤2050    | ≤12750   |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-V-1, |          | 2185\< f | 2230≤ f  |          |          |
| I-2-V-2) |          | \<2230   | \<2255   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| F~uw~    | MHz      | 1392\< f | 1367\< f | 1\< f    | \-       |
|          |          | \<1437   | ≤1392    | ≤1367    |          |
| (Dual    |          |          |          |          |          |
| band     |          | 1511\< f | 1556≤ f  | 1581≤ f  |          |
| 4C-HSDPA |          | \<1556   | \<1581   | \<2025   |          |
| Confi    |          |          |          |          |          |
| guration |          | 2050\< f | 2025\< f | 2255\< f |          |
| I-1-     |          | \<2095   | ≤2050    | ≤ 12750  |          |
| XXXII-2, |          |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-     |          | 2185\< f | 2230≤ f  |          |          |
| XXXII-1) |          | \<2230   | \<2255   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| UE       | dBm      | 20 (for  |          |          |          |
| tra      |          | Power    |          |          |          |
| nsmitted |          | class 3  |          |          |          |
| mean     |          | and      |          |          |          |
| power    |          | 3bis)    |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          | 18 (for  |          |          |          |
|          |          | Power    |          |          |          |
|          |          | class 4) |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Dual     | For      |          |          |          |          |
| band     | 910≤f    |          |          |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA | ≤975 MHz |          |          |          |          |
| Confi    | and      |          |          |          |          |
| guration | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
|          | ≤2185    |          |          |          |          |
| I-2      | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
| -VIII-1, | app      |          |          |          |          |
| I-       | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
| 3-VIII-1 | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | \[       |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4D.2\] |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6        |          |          |          |          |
|          | .5FA.2.1 |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Dual     | For      |          |          |          |          |
| band     | 1915≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA | ≤2005    |          |          |          |          |
| Confi    | MHz and  |          |          |          |          |
| guration | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| II       | ≤2070    |          |          |          |          |
| -1-IV-2, | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
|          | app      |          |          |          |          |
| II       | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
| -2-IV-1, | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
| I        | blocking |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-IV-2 | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | \[       |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4D.2\] |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6        |          |          |          |          |
|          | .5FA.2.1 |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Dual     | For      |          |          |          |          |
| band     | 8        |          |          |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA | 54≤f≤909 |          |          |          |          |
| Confi    | MHz and  |          |          |          |          |
| guration | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| I-1-V-2, | ≤2185    |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-V-1, | app      |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-V-2  | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | \[       |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4D.2\] |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6        |          |          |          |          |
|          | .5FA.2.1 |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Dual     | For      |          |          |          |          |
| band     | 1437≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA | ≤1511    |          |          |          |          |
| Confi    | MHz and  |          |          |          |          |
| guration | 2095≤f   |          |          |          |          |
| I-1-     | ≤2185    |          |          |          |          |
| XXXII-2, | MHz, the |          |          |          |          |
| I-2      | app      |          |          |          |          |
| -XXXII-1 | ropriate |          |          |          |          |
|          | in-band  |          |          |          |          |
|          | blocking |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          |          |          |          |
|          | adjacent |          |          |          |          |
|          | channel  |          |          |          |          |
|          | sel      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ectivity |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | \[       |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6.4D.2\] |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ubclause |          |          |          |          |
|          | 6        |          |          |          |          |
|          | .5FA.2.1 |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | applied. |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

Table 6.5FA.11: Out of band blocking requirements, dual band 4C-HSDPA

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Dual  | DL    | UL    | Para  | Freq  | Freq  | Freq  | Freq  | UL-DL |
| band  | Band  | Band  | meter | uency | uency | uency | uency | ca    |
| 4C-   |       |       |       | range | range | range | range | rrier |
| HSDPA |       |       |       | 1     | 2     | 3     | 4     | separ |
| Con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       | ation |
| figur |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| I-2-V | I     | I     | HS    | \     | \     | \     | \     | Mi    |
| III-1 |       |       | -PDSC | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | nimum |
|       |       |       | H\_Ec | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> |       |
|       |       |       | (dB   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | VIII  |       | Î~or~ | \<    | \<    | \<    | \<    | Mi    |
|       |       |       | (dB   | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | nimum |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  |       |
|       |       |       |       | dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | I     | VIII  | HS    | \     | \     | \     | \     | Mi    |
|       |       |       | -PDSC | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | nimum |
|       |       |       | H\_Ec | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> |       |
|       |       |       | (dB   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | VIII  |       | Î~or~ | \<    | \<    | \<    | \<    | Mi    |
|       |       |       | (dB   | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | nimum |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  |       |
|       |       |       |       | dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| II-1  | II    | II    | HS    | \     | \     | \     | \     | Mi    |
| -IV-2 |       |       | -PDSC | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | nimum |
|       |       |       | H\_Ec | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> |       |
| II-2  |       |       | (dB   |       |       |       |       |       |
| -IV-1 |       |       | m/3.8 | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | IV    |       | Î~or~ | \<    | \<    | \<    | \<    | Mi    |
|       |       |       | (dB   | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | nimum |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  |       |
|       |       |       |       | dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | II    | IV    | HS    | \     | \     | \     | \     | Mi    |
|       |       |       | -PDSC | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | nimum |
|       |       |       | H\_Ec | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> |       |
|       |       |       | (dB   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | IV    |       | Î~or~ | \<    | \<    | \<    | \<    | Mi    |
|       |       |       | (dB   | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | nimum |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  |       |
|       |       |       |       | dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| I-    | I     | I     | HS    | \     | \     | \     | \     | Mi    |
| 1-V-2 |       |       | -PDSC | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | nimum |
|       |       |       | H\_Ec | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> |       |
| I-    |       |       | (dB   |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2-V-1 |       |       | m/3.8 | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | V     |       | Î~or~ | \<    | \<    | \<    | \<    | Mi    |
|       |       |       | (dB   | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | nimum |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  |       |
|       |       |       |       | dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | I     | V     | HS    | \     | \     | \     | \     | Mi    |
|       |       |       | -PDSC | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | nimum |
|       |       |       | H\_Ec | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> |       |
|       |       |       | (dB   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | V     |       | Î~or~ | \<    | \<    | \<    | \<    | Mi    |
|       |       |       | (dB   | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | REFÎ~ | nimum |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> | or~\> |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  |       |
|       |       |       |       | dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| I     | I     | I     | HS    | \     | \     | \     | \     | Mi    |
| -1-XX |       |       | -PDSC | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | <REFS | nimum |
| XII-2 |       |       | H\_Ec | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> | ENS\> |       |
|       |       |       | (dB   |       |       |       |       |       |
| I     |       |       | m/3.8 | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB | +3 dB |       |
| -2-XX |       |       | 4MHz) |       |       |       |       |       |
| XII-1 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | XXXII |       | Îor   | \<REF | \<REF | \<REF | \<REF |       |
|       |       |       | (dB   | Îor\> | Îor\> | Îor\> | Îor\> |       |
|       |       |       | m/3.8 |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 4MHz) | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  | \+ 3  |       |
|       |       |       |       | dB    | dB    | dB    | dB    |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| NOTE: |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| <REFS |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ENS\> |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \<    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| REFÎ~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| or~\> |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| refer |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| HS-   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| PDSCH |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| \_Ec\ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| <REFS |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ENS\> |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| HS-PD |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| SCH\< |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| REFÎ~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| or~\> |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| as    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| spec  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ified |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Table |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 6.2   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| DA.1. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

Table 6.5FA.12: Test parameters for narrow band blocking
characteristics, dual band 4C-HSDPA, single uplink operation

+---------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----------+
| Parameter                 | Unit | Band II, IV, V                  | Band VIII |
+---------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----------+
| I~blocking~ (GMSK)        | dBm  | -57                             | -56       |
+---------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----------+
| F~uw~ (offset)            | MHz  | ±2.7                            | ±2.8      |
|                           |      |                                 |           |
| (NOTE 2)                  |      |                                 |           |
+---------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----------+
| UE transmitted mean power | dBm  | 20 (for Power class 3 and 3bis) |           |
|                           |      |                                 |           |
|                           |      | 18 (for Power class 4)          |           |
+---------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----------+

> NOTE 5: I~blocking~ (GMSK) is an interfering signal as defined in TS
> 45.004

NOTE 6: For dual band 4C-HSDPA, negative offset refers to the assigned
channel frequency of the lowest carrier frequency(ies) in each band, and
positive offset refers to the assigned channel frequency of the highest
carrier frequency(ies) in each band.

Table 6.5FA.13: Narrow band blocking requirements, dual band 4C-HSDPA,
single uplink operation

+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| Dual     | DL Band | UL Band | HS-P     | Î~or~    | UL-DL    |
| band     |         |         | DSCH\_Ec | (dBm/    | carrier  |
| 4C-HSDPA |         |         | (dBm/    | 3.84MHz) | se       |
| Confi    |         |         | 3.84MHz) |          | paration |
| guration |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-       | VIII    | I       | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
| 2-VIII-1 |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
| I-       |         |         |          |          |          |
| 3-VIII-1 |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | VIII    | VIII    | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| I        | II      | II      | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
| I-1-IV-2 |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
| I        |         |         |          |          |          |
| I-2-IV-1 |         |         |          |          |          |
|          |         |         |          |          |          |
| I        |         |         |          |          |          |
| I-2-IV-2 |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | IV      |         | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | II      | IV      | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | IV      |         | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-1-V-2  | V       | I       | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
| I-2-V-1  |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
|          |         |         |          |          |          |
| I-2-V-2  |         |         |          |          |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | V       | V       | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |         |         | ENS\>+10 | or~\>+10 |          |
|          |         |         | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+---------+---------+----------+----------+----------+

NOTE 7: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refer to the
HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
Table 6.2DA.1 for dual band 4C-HSDPA.

NOTE 8: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

6.5G Blocking Characteristics for dual uplink dual band 4C-HSDPA
----------------------------------------------------------------

### 6.5G.1 Definition and applicability

The blocking characteristic is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to
receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency in the
presence of an unwanted interferer on frequencies other than those of
the spurious response or the adjacent channels, without this unwanted
input signal causing a degradation of the performance of the receiver
beyond a specified limit. The blocking performance shall apply at all
frequencies except those at which a spurious response occur.

The requirements in clause 6.5G.2.1 and 6.5G.2.2 and this test apply for
Release 10 and later releases to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that
support dual band dual uplink 4C-HSDPA and HS-DSCH categories 31 or 32.

Dual band 4C-HSDPA is designed to operate in configurations specified in
clause 4.2.

### 6.5G.2 Minimum Requirements

#### 6.5G.2.1 Minimum Requirements (In-band blocking)

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.5G.1 and 6.5G.2. In-band blocking is
defined for an unwanted interfering signal falling into the UE receive
band or into the first 15 MHz below or above the UE receive band.

Table 6.5G.1: Test parameters for in-band blocking, dual band 4C-HSDPA,
dual uplink operation

+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| Parameter           | Unit | Level             |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| I~blocking~ mean    | dBm  | -56               | -44           |
| power (modulated)   |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~ offset        |      | =±10 MHz          | ≤-15 MHz      |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| (NOTE 2)            |      |                   | &             |
|                     |      |                   |               |
|                     |      |                   | ≥15 MHz       |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 2102.4≤ f ≤2177.6 | 2095≤ f ≤2185 |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| (Band I operation)  |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 1922.4≤ f ≤1997.6 | 1915≤ f ≤2005 |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| (Band II operation) |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 2102.4≤ f ≤2162.6 | 2095≤ f ≤2170 |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| (Band IV operation) |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 861.4≤ f ≤901.6   | 854≤ f ≤909   |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| (Band V operation)  |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| Fuw                 | MHz  | 917.4≤ f ≤967.6   | 910 ≤ f ≤ 975 |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| (Band VIII          |      |                   |               |
| operation)          |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| Fuw                 | MHz  | 1444.4≤ f ≤1503.6 | 1437≤ f ≤1511 |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| (Band XXXII         |      |                   |               |
| operation)          |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| NOTE 1: I~blocking~ |      |                   |               |
| (modulated)         |      |                   |               |
| consists of the     |      |                   |               |
| common channels     |      |                   |               |
| needed for tests as |      |                   |               |
| specified in Table  |      |                   |               |
| E.4.1 and 16        |      |                   |               |
| dedicated data      |      |                   |               |
| channels as         |      |                   |               |
| specified in Table  |      |                   |               |
| E.3.6.              |      |                   |               |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| NOTE 2: For dual    |      |                   |               |
| band 4C-HSDPA,      |      |                   |               |
| negative offset     |      |                   |               |
| refers to the       |      |                   |               |
| assigned channel    |      |                   |               |
| frequency of the    |      |                   |               |
| lowest carrier      |      |                   |               |
| frequenc(ies) in    |      |                   |               |
| each band, and      |      |                   |               |
| positive offset     |      |                   |               |
| refers to the       |      |                   |               |
| assigned channel    |      |                   |               |
| frequency of the    |      |                   |               |
| highest carrier     |      |                   |               |
| frequenc(ies) in    |      |                   |               |
| each band.          |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+

Table 6.5G.2: In-band blocking requirements, dual band 4C-HSDPA, dual
uplink operation

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Dual    | DL Band | UL Band | HS-PD   | Î~or~   | UE      | UL-DL   |
| band    |         |         | SCH\_Ec | (dBm/3  | tran    | carrier |
| 4       |         |         | (dBm/3  | .84MHz) | smitted | sep     |
| C-HSDPA |         |         | .84MHz) |         | mean    | aration |
| Config  |         |         |         |         | power   |         |
| uration |         |         |         |         | (dBm)   |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-2     | I       | I       | -110    | -99.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| -VIII-1 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
| I-3     |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
| -VIII-1 |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | VIII    |         | -107    | -96.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| II      | II      | IV      | -107    | -96.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| -1-IV-2 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | -109    | -98.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| II      | II      | II      | -107    | -96.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| -2-IV-1 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | -109    | -98.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| II      | II      | II      | -107    | -96.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| -2-IV-2 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | -109    | -98.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | II      | IV      | -107    | -96.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | -109    | -98.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-1-V-2 | I       | V       | -110    | -99.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | V       |         | -103.2  | -92.9   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-2-V-1 | I       | I       | -110    | -99.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | V       |         | -108    | -97.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-2-V-2 | I       | I       | -110    | -99.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | V       |         | -108    | -97.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | I       | V       | -110    | -99.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | V       |         | -103.2  | -92.9   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-2-    | I       | I       | -110    | -99.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| XXXII-1 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | XXXII   |         | -110    | -99.7   | 20 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

> NOTE 3: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refer to the
> HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
> Table 6.2D.1 for single band 4C-HSDPA.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.6.1D.2.

#### 6.5G.2.2 Minimum requirements (Narrow band blocking)

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.5G.3 and Table 6.5G.4. This requirement
is measure of a receiver's ability to receive a W-CDMA signal at its
assigned channel frequency in the presence of an unwanted narrow band
interferer at a frequency, which is less than the nominal channel
spacing.

Table 6.5G.3: Test parameters for narrow band blocking characteristics
for dual band 4C-HSDPA, dual uplink operation

+--------------------+------+----------------+-----------+
| Parameter          | Unit | Band II, IV, V | Band VIII |
+--------------------+------+----------------+-----------+
| I~blocking~ (GMSK) | dBm  | -57            | -56       |
+--------------------+------+----------------+-----------+
| F~uw~ (offset)     | MHz  | ±2.7           | ±2.8      |
|                    |      |                |           |
| (NOTE 2)           |      |                |           |
+--------------------+------+----------------+-----------+

> NOTE 1: I~blocking~ (GMSK) is an interfering signal as defined in TS
> 45.004

NOTE 2: For dual band 4C-HSDPA, negative offset refers to the assigned
channel frequency of the lowest carrier frequency(ies) in each band, and
positive offset refers to the assigned channel frequency of the highest
carrier frequency(ies) in each band.

Table 6.5G.4: Narrow band blocking requirements, dual band 4C-HSDPA,
dual uplink operation

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Dual    | DL Band | UL Band | HS-PD   | Î~or~   | UE      | UL-DL   |
| band    |         |         | SCH\_Ec | (dBm/3  | tran    | carrier |
| 4       |         |         | (dBm/3  | .84MHz) | smitted | sep     |
| C-HSDPA |         |         | .84MHz) |         | mean    | aration |
| Config  |         |         |         |         | power   |         |
| uration |         |         |         |         | (dBm)   |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-2     | VIII    | I       | -100    | -89.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| -VIII-1 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
| I-3     |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
| -VIII-1 |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| II      | II      | IV      | -100    | -89.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| -1-IV-2 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | -101    | -90.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| II      | II      | II      | -100    | -89.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| -2-IV-1 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | -101    | -90.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| II      | II      | II      | -100    | -89.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| -2-IV-2 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | -101    | -90.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | II      | IV      | -100    | -89.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | -101    | -90.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-1-V-2 | V       | V       | -99.8   | -89.5   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-2-V-1 | V       | I       | -101    | -90.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-2-V-2 | V       | I       | -101    | -90.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | V       | V       | -99.8   | -89.5   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.6.3D.2.

### 6.5G.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BLER of HS-PDSCH on each individual cell does not
exceed 0.1 for the parameters specified in table 6.5G.6, table 6.5G.7,
table 6.5G.8 and table 6.5G.9 for the DL reference channel H-Set 1C
specified in Annex C.8.1.1.

The lack of the blocking ability decreases the 4C-HSDPA coverage area
when other transmitter exists (except in the adjacent channels and
spurious response).

This test case tests only 4 carrier configurations.

### 6.5G.4 Method of test

##### 6.5G.4.1 Initial conditions {#g.4.1-initial-conditions-1 .H6}

For in-band case:

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

For out-of-band case:

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequency to be tested: 1 arbitrary frequency chosen from the low, mid
or high range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.49.

2\) RF parameters are set up according to table 6.5G.6, table 6.5G.7,
table 6.5G.8 and table 6.5G.9.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic 4C-HSDPA setup procedure
specified in TS34.108\[3\] sub clause 7.3.16, with exceptions for
information elements listed in Table 6.5G.5. With this exception, the
Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to algorithm 2.

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-test-loop-mode1-18 .H6}

Table 6.5G.5: Specific Message Contents for In-band blocking
characteristics for Single band 4C-HSDPA, Single uplink operation

  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                       Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2         
  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

##### 6.5G.4.2 Procedure {#g.4.2-procedure-1 .H6}

1\) Set the parameters of the CW generator or the interference signal
generator as shown in table 6.5G.6 and table 6.5G.7, for inblocking
measurements and table 6.5G.8 and table 6.5G.9 for narrow band
measurements. For table 6.5G.8 and 6.5G.9, the frequency step size is 1
MHz.

2\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.5G.6, table
6.5G.7, table 6.5G.8 and table 6.5G.9, or send the power control
commands (1dB step size should be used.) to the UE until UE output power
measured by Test System shall be kept at the specified power level with
±1dB tolerance.

3\) Measure the BLER of HS-PDSCH received from the UE at the SS by
counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the UL HS-DPCCH (BLER =
(NACK + statDTX)/(NACK + statDTX + ACK)).

4\) For table 6.5G.8 and 6.5G.9, record the frequencies for which BLER
exceed the test requirements.

### 6.5G.5 Test requirements

For table 6.5G.6 and 6.5G.7, the measured BLER, derived in step 2),
shall not exceed 0.1 on each individual cell. For table 6.5G.8 and
6.5G.9, the measured BLER, derived in step 2) shall not exceed 0.1 on
each individual cell except for the spurious response frequencies,
recorded in step 3). The number of spurious response frequencies,
recorded in step 3) shall not exceed 24 for frequency range 1, 2 and 3.
The number of spurious response frequencies, recorded in step 3) shall
not exceed 8 for frequency range 4. The minimum number of measurements
required for a statistically significant result to this test is
clarified in annex F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.0.

Table 6.5G.6: Test parameters for in-band blocking, dual band 4C-HSDPA,
dual uplink operation

+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| Parameter           | Unit | Level             |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| I~blocking~ mean    | dBm  | -56               | -44           |
| power (modulated)   |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~ offset        |      | =±10 MHz          | ≤-15 MHz      |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| (NOTE 2)            |      |                   | &             |
|                     |      |                   |               |
|                     |      |                   | ≥15 MHz       |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 2102.4≤ f ≤2177.6 | 2095≤ f ≤2185 |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| (Band I operation)  |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 1922.4≤ f ≤1997.6 | 1915≤ f ≤2005 |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| (Band II operation) |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 2102.4≤ f ≤2162.6 | 2095≤ f ≤2170 |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| (Band IV operation) |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 861.4≤ f ≤901.6   | 854≤ f ≤909   |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| (Band V operation)  |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| Fuw                 | MHz  | 917.4≤ f ≤967.6   | 910 ≤ f ≤ 975 |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| (Band VIII          |      |                   |               |
| operation)          |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| Fuw                 | MHz  | 1444.4≤ f ≤1503.6 | 1437≤ f ≤1511 |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| (Band XXXII         |      |                   |               |
| operation)          |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| NOTE 1: I~blocking~ |      |                   |               |
| (modulated)         |      |                   |               |
| consists of the     |      |                   |               |
| common channels     |      |                   |               |
| needed for tests as |      |                   |               |
| specified in Table  |      |                   |               |
| E.4.1 and 16        |      |                   |               |
| dedicated data      |      |                   |               |
| channels as         |      |                   |               |
| specified in Table  |      |                   |               |
| E.3.6.              |      |                   |               |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| NOTE 2: For dual    |      |                   |               |
| band 4C-HSDPA,      |      |                   |               |
| negative offset     |      |                   |               |
| refers to the       |      |                   |               |
| assigned channel    |      |                   |               |
| frequency of the    |      |                   |               |
| lowest carrier      |      |                   |               |
| frequenc(ies) in    |      |                   |               |
| each band, and      |      |                   |               |
| positive offset     |      |                   |               |
| refers to the       |      |                   |               |
| assigned channel    |      |                   |               |
| frequency of the    |      |                   |               |
| highest carrier     |      |                   |               |
| frequenc(ies) in    |      |                   |               |
| each band.          |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+

Table 6.5G.7: In-band blocking requirements, dual band 4C-HSDPA, dual
uplink operation

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Dual    | DL Band | UL Band | HS-PD   | Î~or~   | UE      | UL-DL   |
| band    |         |         | SCH\_Ec | (dBm/3  | tran    | carrier |
| 4       |         |         | (dBm/3  | .84MHz) | smitted | sep     |
| C-HSDPA |         |         | .84MHz) |         | mean    | aration |
| Config  |         |         |         |         | power   |         |
| uration |         |         |         |         | (dBm)   |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-3     | I       | I       | -110    | -99.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| -VIII-1 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | VIII    |         | -107    | -96.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| II      | II      | II      | -107    | -96.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| -2-IV-2 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | -109    | -98.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | II      | IV      | -107    | -96.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | -109    | -98.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-2-V-2 | I       | I       | -110    | -99.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | V       |         | -108    | -97.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | I       | V       | -110    | -99.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | V       |         | -103.2  | -92.9   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

> NOTE 3: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refer to the
> HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
> Table 6.2D.1 for single band 4C-HSDPA.

Table 6.5G.8: Test parameters for narrow band blocking characteristics
for dual band 4C-HSDPA, dual uplink operation

+--------------------+------+----------------+-----------+
| Parameter          | Unit | Band II, IV, V | Band VIII |
+--------------------+------+----------------+-----------+
| I~blocking~ (GMSK) | dBm  | -57            | -56       |
+--------------------+------+----------------+-----------+
| F~uw~ (offset)     | MHz  | ±2.7           | ±2.8      |
|                    |      |                |           |
| (NOTE 2)           |      |                |           |
+--------------------+------+----------------+-----------+

> NOTE 4: I~blocking~ (GMSK) is an interfering signal as defined in TS
> 45.004.

NOTE 5: For dual band 4C-HSDPA, negative offset refers to the assigned
channel frequency of the lowest carrier frequency(ies) in each band, and
positive offset refers to the assigned channel frequency of the highest
carrier frequency(ies) in each band.

Table 6.5G.9: Narrow band blocking requirements, dual band 4C-HSDPA,
dual uplink operation

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Dual    | DL Band | UL Band | HS-PD   | Î~or~   | UE      | UL-DL   |
| band    |         |         | SCH\_Ec | (dBm/3  | tran    | carrier |
| 4       |         |         | (dBm/3  | .84MHz) | smitted | sep     |
| C-HSDPA |         |         | .84MHz) |         | mean    | aration |
| Config  |         |         |         |         | power   |         |
| uration |         |         |         |         | (dBm)   |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-2     | VIII    | I       | -100    | -89.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| -VIII-1 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
| I-3     |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
| -VIII-1 |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| II      | II      | IV      | -100    | -89.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| -1-IV-2 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | -101    | -90.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| II      | II      | II      | -100    | -89.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| -2-IV-1 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | -101    | -90.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| II      | II      | II      | -100    | -89.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| -2-IV-2 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | -101    | -90.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | II      | IV      | -100    | -89.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | -101    | -90.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-1-V-2 | V       | V       | -99.8   | -89.5   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-2-V-1 | V       | I       | -101    | -90.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-2-V-2 | V       | I       | -101    | -90.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | V       | V       | -99.8   | -89.5   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

NOTE 6: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

6.5GA Blocking Characteristics for dual uplink dual band 4C-HSDPA (3 carrier)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 6.5GA.1 Definition and applicability

The blocking characteristic is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to
receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency in the
presence of an unwanted interferer on frequencies other than those of
the spurious response or the adjacent channels, without this unwanted
input signal causing a degradation of the performance of the receiver
beyond a specified limit. The blocking performance shall apply at all
frequencies except those at which a spurious response occur.

The requirements in clause 6.5GA.2.1 and 6.5GA.2.2 and this test apply
for Release 10 and later releases to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE
that support dual band dual uplink 4C-HSDPA and HS-DSCH categories 29 to
32.

Dual band 4C-HSDPA is designed to operate in configurations specified in
clause 4.2.

### 6.5GA.2 Minimum Requirements

#### 6.5GA.2.1 Minimum Requirements (In-band blocking)

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.5GA.1 and 6.5GA.2. In-band blocking is
defined for an unwanted interfering signal falling into the UE receive
band or into the first 15 MHz below or above the UE receive band.

Table 6.5GA.1: Test parameters for in-band blocking, dual band 4C-HSDPA,
dual uplink operation

+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| Parameter           | Unit | Level             |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| I~blocking~ mean    | dBm  | -56               | -44           |
| power (modulated)   |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~ offset        |      | =±10 MHz          | ≤-15 MHz      |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| (NOTE 2)            |      |                   | &             |
|                     |      |                   |               |
|                     |      |                   | ≥15 MHz       |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 2102.4≤ f ≤2177.6 | 2095≤ f ≤2185 |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| (Band I operation)  |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 1922.4≤ f ≤1997.6 | 1915≤ f ≤2005 |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| (Band II operation) |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 2102.4≤ f ≤2162.6 | 2095≤ f ≤2170 |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| (Band IV operation) |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 861.4≤ f ≤901.6   | 854≤ f ≤909   |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| (Band V operation)  |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| Fuw                 | MHz  | 917.4≤ f ≤967.6   | 910 ≤ f ≤ 975 |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| (Band VIII          |      |                   |               |
| operation)          |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| Fuw                 | MHz  | 1444.4≤ f ≤1503.6 | 1437≤ f ≤1511 |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| (Band XXXII         |      |                   |               |
| operation)          |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| NOTE 1: I~blocking~ |      |                   |               |
| (modulated)         |      |                   |               |
| consists of the     |      |                   |               |
| common channels     |      |                   |               |
| needed for tests as |      |                   |               |
| specified in Table  |      |                   |               |
| E.4.1 and 16        |      |                   |               |
| dedicated data      |      |                   |               |
| channels as         |      |                   |               |
| specified in Table  |      |                   |               |
| E.3.6.              |      |                   |               |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| NOTE 2: For dual    |      |                   |               |
| band 4C-HSDPA,      |      |                   |               |
| negative offset     |      |                   |               |
| refers to the       |      |                   |               |
| assigned channel    |      |                   |               |
| frequency of the    |      |                   |               |
| lowest carrier      |      |                   |               |
| frequenc(ies) in    |      |                   |               |
| each band, and      |      |                   |               |
| positive offset     |      |                   |               |
| refers to the       |      |                   |               |
| assigned channel    |      |                   |               |
| frequency of the    |      |                   |               |
| highest carrier     |      |                   |               |
| frequenc(ies) in    |      |                   |               |
| each band.          |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+

Table 6.5GA.2: In-band blocking requirements, dual band 4C-HSDPA, dual
uplink operation

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Dual    | DL Band | UL Band | HS-PD   | Î~or~   | UE      | UL-DL   |
| band    |         |         | SCH\_Ec | (dBm/3  | tran    | carrier |
| 4       |         |         | (dBm/3  | .84MHz) | smitted | sep     |
| C-HSDPA |         |         | .84MHz) |         | mean    | aration |
| Config  |         |         |         |         | power   |         |
| uration |         |         |         |         | (dBm)   |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-2     | I       | I       | -110    | -99.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| -VIII-1 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
| I-3     |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
| -VIII-1 |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | VIII    |         | -107    | -96.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| II      | II      | IV      | -107    | -96.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| -1-IV-2 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | -109    | -98.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| II      | II      | II      | -107    | -96.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| -2-IV-1 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | -109    | -98.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| II      | II      | II      | -107    | -96.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| -2-IV-2 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | -109    | -98.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | II      | IV      | -107    | -96.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | -109    | -98.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-1-V-2 | I       | V       | -110    | -99.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | V       |         | -103.2  | -92.9   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-2-V-1 | I       | I       | -110    | -99.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | V       |         | -108    | -97.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-2-V-2 | I       | I       | -110    | -99.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | V       |         | -108    | -97.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | I       | V       | -110    | -99.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | V       |         | -103.2  | -92.9   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-2-    | I       | I       | -110    | -99.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| XXXII-1 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | XXXII   |         | -110    | -99.7   | 20 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

> NOTE 3: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refer to the
> HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
> Table 6.2DA.1 for single band 4C-HSDPA.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.6.1D.2.

#### 6.5GA.2.2 Minimum requirements (Narrow band blocking)

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.5GA.3 and Table 6.5GA.4. This
requirement is measure of a receiver's ability to receive a W-CDMA
signal at its assigned channel frequency in the presence of an unwanted
narrow band interferer at a frequency, which is less than the nominal
channel spacing.

Table 6.5GA.3: Test parameters for narrow band blocking characteristics
for dual band 4C-HSDPA, dual uplink operation

+--------------------+------+----------------+-----------+
| Parameter          | Unit | Band II, IV, V | Band VIII |
+--------------------+------+----------------+-----------+
| I~blocking~ (GMSK) | dBm  | -57            | -56       |
+--------------------+------+----------------+-----------+
| F~uw~ (offset)     | MHz  | ±2.7           | ±2.8      |
|                    |      |                |           |
| (NOTE 2)           |      |                |           |
+--------------------+------+----------------+-----------+

> NOTE 1: I~blocking~ (GMSK) is an interfering signal as defined in TS
> 45.004

NOTE 2: For dual band 4C-HSDPA, negative offset refers to the assigned
channel frequency of the lowest carrier frequency(ies) in each band, and
positive offset refers to the assigned channel frequency of the highest
carrier frequency(ies) in each band.

Table 6.5GA.4: Narrow band blocking requirements, dual band 4C-HSDPA,
dual uplink operation

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Dual    | DL Band | UL Band | HS-PD   | Î~or~   | UE      | UL-DL   |
| band    |         |         | SCH\_Ec | (dBm/3  | tran    | carrier |
| 4       |         |         | (dBm/3  | .84MHz) | smitted | sep     |
| C-HSDPA |         |         | .84MHz) |         | mean    | aration |
| Config  |         |         |         |         | power   |         |
| uration |         |         |         |         | (dBm)   |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-2     | VIII    | I       | -100    | -89.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| -VIII-1 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
| I-3     |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
| -VIII-1 |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| II      | II      | IV      | -100    | -89.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| -1-IV-2 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | -101    | -90.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| II      | II      | II      | -100    | -89.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| -2-IV-1 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | -101    | -90.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| II      | II      | II      | -100    | -89.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| -2-IV-2 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | -101    | -90.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | II      | IV      | -100    | -89.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | -101    | -90.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-1-V-2 | V       | V       | -99.8   | -89.5   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-2-V-1 | V       | I       | -101    | -90.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-2-V-2 | V       | I       | -101    | -90.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | V       | V       | -99.8   | -89.5   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.6.3D.2.

### 6.5GA.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BLER of HS-PDSCH on each individual cell does not
exceed 0.1 for the parameters specified in table 6.5GA.6, table 6.5GA.7,
table 6.5GA.8 and table 6.5GA.9 for the DL reference channel H-Set 1B
specified in Annex C.8.1.1.

The lack of the blocking ability decreases the 4C-HSDPA coverage area
when other transmitter exists (except in the adjacent channels and
spurious response).

This test case tests only 3 carrier configurations.

### 6.5GA.4 Method of test

##### 6.5GA.4.1 Initial conditions {#ga.4.1-initial-conditions-1 .H6}

For in-band case:

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

For out-of-band case:

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequency to be tested: 1 arbitrary frequency chosen from the low, mid
or high range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.49.

2\) RF parameters are set up according to table 6.5GA.6, table 6.5GA.7,
table 6.5GA.8 and table 6.5GA.9.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic 4C-HSDPA setup procedure
specified in TS34.108\[3\] sub clause 7.3.16, with exceptions for
information elements listed in Table 6.5GA.5. With this exception, the
Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to algorithm 2.

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-test-loop-mode1-19 .H6}

Table 6.5GA.5: Specific Message Contents for In-band blocking
characteristics for Single band 4C-HSDPA, Single uplink operation

  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                       Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2         
  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

##### 6.5GA.4.2 Procedure {#ga.4.2-procedure-1 .H6}

1\) Set the parameters of the CW generator or the interference signal
generator as shown in table 6.5GA.6 and table 6.5GA.7, for inblocking
measurements and table 6.5GA.8 and table 6.5GA.9 for narrow band
measurements. For table 6.5GA.8 and 6.5GA.9, the frequency step size is
1 MHz.

2\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.5GA.6, table
6.5GA.7, table 6.5GA.8 and table 6.5GA.9, or send the power control
commands (1dB step size should be used.) to the UE until UE output power
measured by Test System shall be kept at the specified power level with
±1dB tolerance.

3\) Measure the BLER of HS-PDSCH received from the UE at the SS by
counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the UL HS-DPCCH (BLER =
(NACK + statDTX)/(NACK + statDTX + ACK)).

4\) For table 6.5GA.8 and 6.5GA.9, record the frequencies for which BLER
exceed the test requirements.

### 6.5GA.5 Test requirements

For table 6.5GA.6 and 6.5GA.7, the measured BLER, derived in step 2),
shall not exceed 0.1 on each individual cell. For table 6.5GA.8 and
6.5GA.9, the measured BLER, derived in step 2) shall not exceed 0.1 on
each individual cell except for the spurious response frequencies,
recorded in step 3). The number of spurious response frequencies,
recorded in step 3) shall not exceed 24 for frequency range 1, 2 and 3.
The number of spurious response frequencies, recorded in step 3) shall
not exceed 8 for frequency range 4. The minimum number of measurements
required for a statistically significant result to this test is
clarified in annex F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.0.

Table 6.5GA.6: Test parameters for in-band blocking, dual band 4C-HSDPA,
dual uplink operation

+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| Parameter           | Unit | Level             |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| I~blocking~ mean    | dBm  | -56               | -44           |
| power (modulated)   |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~ offset        |      | =±10 MHz          | ≤-15 MHz      |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| (NOTE 2)            |      |                   | &             |
|                     |      |                   |               |
|                     |      |                   | ≥15 MHz       |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 2102.4≤ f ≤2177.6 | 2095≤ f ≤2185 |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| (Band I operation)  |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 1922.4≤ f ≤1997.6 | 1915≤ f ≤2005 |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| (Band II operation) |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 2102.4≤ f ≤2162.6 | 2095≤ f ≤2170 |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| (Band IV operation) |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| F~uw~               | MHz  | 861.4≤ f ≤901.6   | 854≤ f ≤909   |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| (Band V operation)  |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| Fuw                 | MHz  | 917.4≤ f ≤967.6   | 910 ≤ f ≤ 975 |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| (Band VIII          |      |                   |               |
| operation)          |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| Fuw                 | MHz  | 1444.4≤ f ≤1503.6 | 1437≤ f ≤1511 |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| (Band XXXII         |      |                   |               |
| operation)          |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+
| NOTE 1: I~blocking~ |      |                   |               |
| (modulated)         |      |                   |               |
| consists of the     |      |                   |               |
| common channels     |      |                   |               |
| needed for tests as |      |                   |               |
| specified in Table  |      |                   |               |
| E.4.1 and 16        |      |                   |               |
| dedicated data      |      |                   |               |
| channels as         |      |                   |               |
| specified in Table  |      |                   |               |
| E.3.6.              |      |                   |               |
|                     |      |                   |               |
| NOTE 2: For dual    |      |                   |               |
| band 4C-HSDPA,      |      |                   |               |
| negative offset     |      |                   |               |
| refers to the       |      |                   |               |
| assigned channel    |      |                   |               |
| frequency of the    |      |                   |               |
| lowest carrier      |      |                   |               |
| frequenc(ies) in    |      |                   |               |
| each band, and      |      |                   |               |
| positive offset     |      |                   |               |
| refers to the       |      |                   |               |
| assigned channel    |      |                   |               |
| frequency of the    |      |                   |               |
| highest carrier     |      |                   |               |
| frequenc(ies) in    |      |                   |               |
| each band.          |      |                   |               |
+---------------------+------+-------------------+---------------+

Table 6.5GA.7: In-band blocking requirements, dual band 4C-HSDPA, dual
uplink operation

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Dual    | DL Band | UL Band | HS-PD   | Î~or~   | UE      | UL-DL   |
| band    |         |         | SCH\_Ec | (dBm/3  | tran    | carrier |
| 4       |         |         | (dBm/3  | .84MHz) | smitted | sep     |
| C-HSDPA |         |         | .84MHz) |         | mean    | aration |
| Config  |         |         |         |         | power   |         |
| uration |         |         |         |         | (dBm)   |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-2     | I       | I       | -110    | -99.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| -VIII-1 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | VIII    |         | -107    | -96.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| II      | II      | IV      | -107    | -96.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| -1-IV-2 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | -109    | -98.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| II      | II      | II      | -107    | -96.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| -2-IV-1 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | -109    | -98.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-1-V-2 | I       | V       | -110    | -99.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | V       |         | -103.2  | -92.9   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-2-V-1 | I       | I       | -110    | -99.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | V       |         | -108    | -97.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-2-    | I       | I       | -110    | -99.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| XXXII-1 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | XXXII   |         | -110    | -99.7   | 20 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

> NOTE 3: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refer to the
> HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
> Table 6.2DA.1 for single band 4C-HSDPA.

Table 6.5GA.8: Test parameters for narrow band blocking characteristics
for dual band 4C-HSDPA, dual uplink operation

+--------------------+------+----------------+-----------+
| Parameter          | Unit | Band II, IV, V | Band VIII |
+--------------------+------+----------------+-----------+
| I~blocking~ (GMSK) | dBm  | -57            | -56       |
+--------------------+------+----------------+-----------+
| F~uw~ (offset)     | MHz  | ±2.7           | ±2.8      |
|                    |      |                |           |
| (NOTE 2)           |      |                |           |
+--------------------+------+----------------+-----------+

> NOTE 4: I~blocking~ (GMSK) is an interfering signal as defined in TS
> 45.004.

NOTE 5: For dual band 4C-HSDPA, negative offset refers to the assigned
channel frequency of the lowest carrier frequency(ies) in each band, and
positive offset refers to the assigned channel frequency of the highest
carrier frequency(ies) in each band.

Table 6.5GA.9: Narrow band blocking requirements, dual band 4C-HSDPA,
dual uplink operation

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Dual    | DL Band | UL Band | HS-PD   | Î~or~   | UE      | UL-DL   |
| band    |         |         | SCH\_Ec | (dBm/3  | tran    | carrier |
| 4       |         |         | (dBm/3  | .84MHz) | smitted | sep     |
| C-HSDPA |         |         | .84MHz) |         | mean    | aration |
| Config  |         |         |         |         | power   |         |
| uration |         |         |         |         | (dBm)   |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-2     | VIII    | I       | -100    | -89.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| -VIII-1 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
| I-3     |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
| -VIII-1 |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| II      | II      | IV      | -100    | -89.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| -1-IV-2 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | -101    | -90.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| II      | II      | II      | -100    | -89.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| -2-IV-1 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | -101    | -90.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| II      | II      | II      | -100    | -89.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
| -2-IV-2 |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | -101    | -90.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | II      | IV      | -100    | -89.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | IV      |         | -101    | -90.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-1-V-2 | V       | V       | -99.8   | -89.5   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-2-V-1 | V       | I       | -101    | -90.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I-2-V-2 | V       | I       | -101    | -90.7   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | V       | V       | -99.8   | -89.5   | 20 (for | Minimum |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class 3 |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | and     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 3bis)   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 18 (for |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | Power   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | class   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 4)      |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

NOTE 6: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

6.6 Spurious Response
---------------------

### 6.6.1 Definition and applicability

Spurious response is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to receive a
wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency without exceeding a
given degradation due to the presence of an unwanted CW interfering
signal at any other frequency at which a response is obtained i.e. for
which the out of band blocking limit is not met.

The requirements and this test apply to all types of UTRA for the FDD
UE.

### 6.6.2 Minimum Requirements

The BER shall not exceed 0,001 for the parameters specified in table
6.6.1.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.7.1.

Table 6.6.1: Test parameters for Spurious Response

+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Parameter                 | Level                           | Unit          |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| DPCH\_Ec                  | \<REFSENS\> +3 dB               | dBm / 3,84MHz |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Îor                       | \<REFÎ~or~\> +3 dB              | dBm / 3,84MHz |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Iblocking(CW)             | −44                             | dBm           |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Fuw                       | Spurious response frequencies   | MHz           |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| UE transmitted mean power | 20 (for Power class 3 and 3bis) | dBm           |
|                           |                                 |               |
|                           | 18 (for Power class 4)          |               |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+

### 6.6.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BER does not exceed 0,001 for the parameters
specified in table 6.6.2.

The lack of the spurious response ability decreases the coverage area
when other unwanted interfering signal exists at any other frequency.

### 6.6.4 Method of test

##### 6.6.4.1 Initial conditions {#initial-conditions-24 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequency to be tested: the same frequency as chosen in clause 6.5.4.1
for Blocking characteristics out-of-band case.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.6.

2\) RF parameters are set up according to table 6.6.2.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure
specified in TS 34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.2, with the following
exception for information elements in RADIO BEARER SETUP message. With
this exception, the Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to
algorithm 2.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

Table 6.6.1A Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM

  ---------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element          **Value/Remark**
  CHOICE channel requirement   Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm   Algorithm2
  ---------------------------- ------------------

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 6.6.4.2 Procedure {#procedure-24 .H6}

> 1\) Set the parameter of the CW generator as shown in table 6.6.2. The
> spurious response frequencies are determined in step 3) of clause
> 6.5.4.2.
>
> 2\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.6.2 or send the
> power control commands (1dB step size should be used.) to the UE until
> UE output power measured by Test System shall be kept at the specified
> power level with ±1dB tolerance.
>
> 3\) Measure the BER of DCH received from the UE at the SS.

### 6.6.5 Test requirements

The measured BER, derived in step 3), shall not exceed 0,001.

Table 6.6.2: Test parameters for Spurious Response

+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Parameter                 | Level                           | Unit          |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| DPCH\_Ec                  | \<REFSENS\> +3 dB               | dBm / 3,84MHz |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Îor                       | \<REFÎ~or~\> +3 dB              | dBm / 3,84MHz |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Iblocking(CW)             | −44                             | dBm           |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Fuw                       | Spurious response frequencies   | MHz           |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| UE transmitted mean power | 20 (for Power class 3 and 3bis) | dBm           |
|                           |                                 |               |
|                           | 18 (for Power class 4)          |               |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

6.6A Spurious Response for DC-HSDPA
-----------------------------------

### 6.6A.1 Definition and applicability

Spurious response is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to receive a
wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency without exceeding a
given degradation due to the presence of an unwanted CW interfering
signal at any other frequency at which a response is obtained i.e. for
which the out of band blocking limit as specified in subclause 6.5A.2.2
is not met.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 8 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support DC-HSDPA.

### 6.6A.2 Minimum Requirements

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.6A.1.

Table 6.6A.1: Test Parameters for Spurious Response (DC-HSDPA)

+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+
| Parameter                 | Unit         | Level                           |
+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+
| HS-PDSCH\_Ec              | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFSENS\> +3 dB               |
+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+
| Î~or~                     | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFÎ~or~\> +3 dB              |
+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+
| I~blocking~ (CW)          | dBm          | -44                             |
+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+
| F~uw~                     | MHz          | Spurious response frequencies   |
+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+
| UE transmitted mean power | dBm          | 20 (for Power class 3 and 3bis) |
|                           |              |                                 |
|                           |              | 18 (for Power class 4)          |
+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+

NOTE: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\>
and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in Table 7.2A.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.7.2.

### 6.6A.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BLER of HS-PDSCH does not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in table 6.6A.3 for the DL reference channel H-Set
12 specified in Annex C.8.1.12.

The lack of the spurious response ability decreases the DC-HSDPA
coverage area when other unwanted interfering signal exists at any other
frequency.

### 6.6A.4 Method of test

##### 6.6A.4.1 Initial conditions {#a.4.1-initial-conditions-18 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequency to be tested: the same frequency as chosen in clause 6.5A.4.1
for Blocking characteristics out-of-band case.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.33.

2\) RF parameters are set up according to table 6.6A.3.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic DC-HSDPA setup procedure
specified in TS 34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.13, with exceptions for
information elements listed in Table 6.6A.2. With this exception, the
Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to algorithm 2.

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-test-loop-mode1-20 .H6}

Table 6.6A.2: Specific Message Contents for Spurious Response (DC-HSDPA)

  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                       Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2         
  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (DC-HSDPA) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-dc-hsdpa-11 .H6}

  ----------------------------------- ------------------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 Value/remark                   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                                   Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                                  
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                            
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2                     
  Downlink HS-PDSCH Information                                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                            
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured        Not Present                    Rel-7
  \- HS-DSCH TB size table            octet aligned (for H-Set 12)   Rel-7
  Downlink secondary cell info FDD                                   Rel-8
  \- CHOICE Configuration info        New configuration              
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured        Not Present                    
  \- HS-DSCH TB size table            octet aligned (for H-Set 12)   
  ----------------------------------- ------------------------------ ---------

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 6.6A.4.2 Procedure {#a.4.2-procedure-18 .H6}

> 1\) Set the parameter of the CW generator as shown in table 6.6A.3.
> The spurious response frequencies are determined in step 3) of clause
> 6.5A.4.2.
>
> 2\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.6A.3 or send
> the power control commands (1dB step size should be used.) to the UE
> until UE output power measured by Test System shall be kept at the
> specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.
>
> 3\) Measure the BLER of HS-PDSCH received from the UE at the SS by
> counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the UL HS-DPCCH (BLER
> = (NACK + statDTX)/(NACK + statDTX + ACK)).

### 6.6A.5 Test requirements

The measured BLER, derived in step 3), shall not exceed 0.1 on each
individual cell. The minimum number of measurements required for a
statistically significant result to this test is clarified in annex
F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.0.

Table 6.6A.3: Test parameters for Spurious Response (DC-HSDPA)

+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Parameter                 | Level                           | Unit          |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| HS-PDSCH\_Ec              | \<REFSENS\> +3 dB               | dBm / 3,84MHz |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Îor                       | \<REFÎ~or~\> +3 dB              | dBm / 3,84MHz |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Iblocking(CW)             | −44                             | dBm           |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Fuw                       | Spurious response frequencies   | MHz           |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| UE transmitted mean power | 20 (for Power class 3 and 3bis) | dBm           |
|                           |                                 |               |
|                           | 18 (for Power class 4)          |               |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

6.6B Spurious Response for DB-DC-HSDPA
--------------------------------------

### 6.6B.1 Definition and applicability

Spurious response is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to receive a
wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency without exceeding a
given degradation due to the presence of an unwanted CW interfering
signal at any other frequency at which a response is obtained i.e. for
which the out of band blocking limit as specified in subclause 6.5B.2.2
is not met.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 9 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support DB-DC-HSDPA.

DB-DC-HSDPA is designed to operate in configurations specified in clause
4.2.

### 6.6B.2 Minimum Requirements

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.6B.1.

Table 6.6B.1: Test Parameters for Spurious Response (DB-DC-HSDPA)

+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+
| Parameter                 | Unit         | Level                           |
+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+
| HS-PDSCH\_Ec              | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFSENS\> +3 dB               |
+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+
| Î~or~                     | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFÎ~or~\> +3 dB              |
+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+
| I~blocking~ (CW)          | dBm          | -44                             |
+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+
| F~uw~                     | MHz          | Spurious response frequencies   |
+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+
| UE transmitted mean power | dBm          | 20 (for Power class 3 and 3bis) |
|                           |              |                                 |
|                           |              | 18 (for Power class 4)          |
+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+

NOTE: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\>
and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in Table 6.2B.1.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.7.2.

### 6.6B.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BLER of HS-PDSCH does not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in table 6.6B.3 for the DL reference channel H-Set
12 specified in Annex C.8.1.12.

The lack of the spurious response ability decreases the DB-DC-HSDPA
coverage area when other unwanted interfering signal exists at any other
frequency.

### 6.6B.4 Method of test

##### 6.6B.4.1 Initial conditions {#b.4.1-initial-conditions-14 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequency to be tested: the same frequency as chosen in clause 6.5B.4.1
for Blocking characteristics out-of-band case.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.33.

2\) RF parameters are set up according to table 6.6B.3.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure
specified in TS 34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.13, with exceptions for
information elements listed in Table 6.6B.2. With this exception, the
Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to algorithm 2.

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-test-loop-mode1-21 .H6}

Table 6.6B.2: Specific Message Contents for Spurious Response
(DB-DC-HSDPA)

  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                       Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2         
  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (DC-HSDPA) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-dc-hsdpa-12 .H6}

  ----------------------------------- ------------------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 Value/remark                   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                                   Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                                  
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                            
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2                     
  Downlink HS-PDSCH Information                                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                            
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured        Not Present                    Rel-7
  \- HS-DSCH TB size table            octet aligned (for H-Set 12)   Rel-7
  Downlink secondary cell info FDD                                   Rel-8
  \- CHOICE Configuration info        New configuration              
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured        Not Present                    
  \- HS-DSCH TB size table            octet aligned (for H-Set 12)   
  ----------------------------------- ------------------------------ ---------

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 6.6B.4.2 Procedure {#b.4.2-procedure-14 .H6}

> 1\) Set the parameter of the CW generator as shown in table 6.6B.3.
> The spurious response frequencies are determined in step 3) of clause
> 6.5B.4.2.
>
> 2\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.6B.3 or send
> the power control commands (1dB step size should be used.) to the UE
> until UE output power measured by Test System shall be kept at the
> specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.
>
> 3\) Measure the BLER of HS-PDSCH received from the UE at the SS by
> counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the UL HS-DPCCH (BLER
> = (NACK + statDTX)/(NACK + statDTX + ACK)).

### 6.6B.5 Test requirements

The measured BLER, derived in step 3), shall not exceed 0.1 on each
individual cell. The minimum number of measurements required for a
statistically significant result to this test is clarified in annex
F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.0.

Table 6.6B.3: Test parameters for Spurious Response (DB-DC-HSDPA)

+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Parameter                 | Level                           | Unit          |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| HS-PDSCH\_Ec              | \<REFSENS\> +3 dB               | dBm / 3,84MHz |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Îor                       | \<REFÎ~or~\> +3 dB              | dBm / 3,84MHz |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Iblocking(CW)             | −44                             | dBm           |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Fuw                       | Spurious response frequencies   | MHz           |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| UE transmitted mean power | 20 (for Power class 3 and 3bis) | dBm           |
|                           |                                 |               |
|                           | 18 (for Power class 4)          |               |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

6.6C Spurious Response for single band 4C-HSDPA
-----------------------------------------------

### 6.6C.1 Definition and applicability

Spurious response is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to receive a
wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency without exceeding a
given degradation due to the presence of an unwanted CW interfering
signal at any other frequency at which a response is obtained i.e. for
which the out of band blocking limit as specified in subclause 6.5D.2.2
is not met.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 10 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support single band 4C-HSDPA.

Single band 4C-HSDPA is designed to operate in configurations specified
in clause 4.2.

### 6.6C.2 Minimum Requirements

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.6C.1.

Table 6.6C.1: Test Parameters for Spurious Response single band 4C-HSDPA

+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+
| Parameter                 | Unit         | Level                           |
+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+
| HS-PDSCH\_Ec              | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFSENS\> +3 dB               |
+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+
| Î~or~                     | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFÎ~or~\> +3 dB              |
+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+
| I~blocking~ (CW)          | dBm          | -44                             |
+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+
| F~uw~                     | MHz          | Spurious response frequencies   |
+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+
| UE transmitted mean power | dBm          | 20 (for Power class 3 and 3bis) |
|                           |              |                                 |
|                           |              | 18 (for Power class 4)          |
+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+

NOTE: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\>
and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in Table 6.2C.1.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.7.2.

### 6.6C.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BLER of HS-PDSCH does not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in table 6.6C.3 for the DL reference channel H-Set
1B specified in Annex C.8.1.1.

The lack of the spurious response ability decreases the 4C-HSDPA
coverage area when other unwanted interfering signal exists at any other
frequency.

### 6.6C.4 Method of test

##### 6.6C.4.1 Initial conditions {#c.4.1-initial-conditions-14 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequency to be tested: the same frequency as chosen in clause 6.5D.4.1
for Blocking characteristics out-of-band case.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.50.

2\) RF parameters are set up according to table 6.6C.3.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure
specified in TS 34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.16, with exceptions for
information elements listed in Table 6.6C.2. With this exception, the
Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to algorithm 2.

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-test-loop-mode1-22 .H6}

Table 6.6C.2: Specific Message Contents for Spurious Response (single
band 4C-HSDPA)

  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                       Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2         
  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 6.6C.4.2 Procedure {#c.4.2-procedure-14 .H6}

> 1\) Set the parameter of the CW generator as shown in table 6.6C.3.
> The spurious response frequencies are determined in step 3) of clause
> 6.5D.4.2.
>
> 2\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.6C.3 or send
> the power control commands (1dB step size should be used.) to the UE
> until UE output power measured by Test System shall be kept at the
> specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.
>
> 3\) Measure the BLER of HS-PDSCH received from the UE at the SS by
> counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the UL HS-DPCCH (BLER
> = (NACK + statDTX)/(NACK + statDTX + ACK)).

### 6.6C.5 Test requirements

The measured BLER, derived in step 3), shall not exceed 0.1 on each
individual cell. The minimum number of measurements required for a
statistically significant result to this test is clarified in annex
F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.0.

Table 6.6C.3: Test parameters for Spurious Response (single band
4C-HSDPA)

+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Parameter                 | Level                           | Unit          |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| HS-PDSCH\_Ec              | \<REFSENS\> +3 dB               | dBm / 3,84MHz |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Îor                       | \<REFÎ~or~\> +3 dB              | dBm / 3,84MHz |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Iblocking(CW)             | −44                             | dBm           |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Fuw                       | Spurious response frequencies   | MHz           |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| UE transmitted mean power | 20 (for Power class 3 and 3bis) | dBm           |
|                           |                                 |               |
|                           | 18 (for Power class 4)          |               |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

6.6D Spurious Response for dual band 4C-HSDPA
---------------------------------------------

### 6.6D.1 Definition and applicability

Spurious response is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to receive a
wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency without exceeding a
given degradation due to the presence of an unwanted CW interfering
signal at any other frequency at which a response is obtained i.e. for
which the out of band blocking limit as specified in subclause 6.5B.2.2
is not met.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 10 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support dual band 4C-HSDPA and
HS-DSCH categories 31 or 32.

Dual band 4C-HSDPA is designed to operate in configurations specified in
clause 4.2.

### 6.6D.2 Minimum Requirements

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.6D.1.

Table 6.6D.1: Test Parameters for Spurious Response (Dual band 4C-HSDPA)

+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+
| Parameter                 | Unit         | Level                           |
+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+
| HS-PDSCH\_Ec              | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFSENS\> +3 dB               |
+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+
| Î~or~                     | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFÎ~or~\> +3 dB              |
+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+
| I~blocking~ (CW)          | dBm          | -44                             |
+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+
| F~uw~                     | MHz          | Spurious response frequencies   |
+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+
| UE transmitted mean power | dBm          | 20 (for Power class 3 and 3bis) |
|                           |              |                                 |
|                           |              | 18 (for Power class 4)          |
+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+

NOTE: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\>
and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in Table 6.2D.1.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.7.2.

### 6.6D.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BLER of HS-PDSCH does not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in table 6.6D.3 for the DL reference channel H-Set
1C specified in Annex C.8.1.1.

The lack of the spurious response ability decreases the 4C-HSDPA
coverage area when other unwanted interfering signal exists at any other
frequency.

This test case tests only 4 carrier configurations.

### 6.6D.4 Method of test

##### 6.6D.4.1 Initial conditions {#d.4.1-initial-conditions-11 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequency to be tested: the same frequency as chosen in clause 6.5F.4.1
for Blocking characteristics out-of-band case.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.50.

2\) RF parameters are set up according to table 6.6D.3.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure
specified in TS 34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.16, with exceptions for
information elements listed in Table 6.6D.2. With this exception, the
Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to algorithm 2.

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-test-loop-mode1-23 .H6}

Table 6.6D.2: Specific Message Contents for Spurious Response (Dual band
4C-HSDPA)

  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                       Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2         
  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

##### See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic call setup procedure and loopback test. {#see-ts-34.108-3-and-ts-34.109-4-for-details-regarding-generic-call-setup-procedure-and-loopback-test. .H6}

##### 6.6D.4.2 Procedure {#d.4.2-procedure-11 .H6}

> 1\) Set the parameter of the CW generator as shown in table 6.6D.3.
> The spurious response frequencies are determined in step 3) of clause
> 6.5F.4.2.
>
> 2\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.6D.3 or send
> the power control commands (1dB step size should be used.) to the UE
> until UE output power measured by Test System shall be kept at the
> specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.
>
> 3\) Measure the BLER of HS-PDSCH received from the UE at the SS by
> counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the UL HS-DPCCH (BLER
> = (NACK + statDTX)/(NACK + statDTX + ACK)).

### 6.6D.5 Test requirements

The measured BLER, derived in step 3), shall not exceed 0.1 on each
individual cell. The minimum number of measurements required for a
statistically significant result to this test is clarified in annex
F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.0.

Table 6.6D.3: Test parameters for Spurious Response (Dual band 4C-HSDPA)

+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Parameter                 | Level                           | Unit          |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| HS-PDSCH\_Ec              | \<REFSENS\> +3 dB               | dBm / 3,84MHz |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Îor                       | \<REFÎ~or~\> +3 dB              | dBm / 3,84MHz |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Iblocking(CW)             | −44                             | dBm           |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Fuw                       | Spurious response frequencies   | MHz           |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| UE transmitted mean power | 20 (for Power class 3 and 3bis) | dBm           |
|                           |                                 |               |
|                           | 18 (for Power class 4)          |               |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

6.6DA Spurious Response for dual band 4C-HSDPA (3 carrier)
----------------------------------------------------------

### 6.6DA.1 Definition and applicability

Spurious response is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to receive a
wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency without exceeding a
given degradation due to the presence of an unwanted CW interfering
signal at any other frequency at which a response is obtained i.e. for
which the out of band blocking limit as specified in subclause 6.5B.2.2
is not met.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 10 and later releases
to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support dual band 4C-HSDPA and
HS-DSCH categories 29 to 32.

Dual band 4C-HSDPA is designed to operate in configurations specified in
clause 4.2.

### 6.6DA.2 Minimum Requirements

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.6DA.1.

Table 6.6DA.1: Test Parameters for Spurious Response (Dual band
4C-HSDPA)

+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+
| Parameter                 | Unit         | Level                           |
+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+
| HS-PDSCH\_Ec              | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFSENS\> +3 dB               |
+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+
| Î~or~                     | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFÎ~or~\> +3 dB              |
+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+
| I~blocking~ (CW)          | dBm          | -44                             |
+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+
| F~uw~                     | MHz          | Spurious response frequencies   |
+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+
| UE transmitted mean power | dBm          | 20 (for Power class 3 and 3bis) |
|                           |              |                                 |
|                           |              | 18 (for Power class 4)          |
+---------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------+

NOTE: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\>
and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in Table 6.2DA.1.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.7.2.

### 6.6DA.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BLER of HS-PDSCH does not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in table 6.6DA.3 for the DL reference channel H-Set
1B specified in Annex C.8.1.1.

The lack of the spurious response ability decreases the 4C-HSDPA
coverage area when other unwanted interfering signal exists at any other
frequency.

This test case tests only 3 carrier configurations.

### 6.6DA.4 Method of test

##### 6.6DA.4.1 Initial conditions {#da.4.1-initial-conditions-2 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequency to be tested: the same frequency as chosen in clause 6.5FA.4.1
for Blocking characteristics out-of-band case.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.50.

2\) RF parameters are set up according to table 6.6DA.3.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure
specified in TS 34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.16, with exceptions for
information elements listed in Table 6.6DA.2. With this exception, the
Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to algorithm 2.

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-test-loop-mode1-24 .H6}

Table 6.6DA.2: Specific Message Contents for Spurious Response (Dual
band 4C-HSDPA)

  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                       Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2         
  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

##### See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic call setup procedure and loopback test. {#see-ts-34.108-3-and-ts-34.109-4-for-details-regarding-generic-call-setup-procedure-and-loopback-test.-1 .H6}

##### 6.6DA.4.2 Procedure {#da.4.2-procedure-2 .H6}

> 1\) Set the parameter of the CW generator as shown in table 6.6DA.3.
> The spurious response frequencies are determined in step 3) of clause
> 6.5FA.4.2.
>
> 2\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.6DA.3 or send
> the power control commands (1dB step size should be used.) to the UE
> until UE output power measured by Test System shall be kept at the
> specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.
>
> 3\) Measure the BLER of HS-PDSCH received from the UE at the SS by
> counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the UL HS-DPCCH (BLER
> = (NACK + statDTX)/(NACK + statDTX + ACK)).

### 6.6DA.5 Test requirements

The measured BLER, derived in step 3), shall not exceed 0.1 on each
individual cell. The minimum number of measurements required for a
statistically significant result to this test is clarified in annex
F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.0.

Table 6.6DA.3: Test parameters for Spurious Response (Dual band
4C-HSDPA)

+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Parameter                 | Level                           | Unit          |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| HS-PDSCH\_Ec              | \<REFSENS\> +3 dB               | dBm / 3,84MHz |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Îor                       | \<REFÎ~or~\> +3 dB              | dBm / 3,84MHz |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Iblocking(CW)             | −44                             | dBm           |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| Fuw                       | Spurious response frequencies   | MHz           |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+
| UE transmitted mean power | 20 (for Power class 3 and 3bis) | dBm           |
|                           |                                 |               |
|                           | 18 (for Power class 4)          |               |
+---------------------------+---------------------------------+---------------+

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

6.7 Intermodulation Characteristics
-----------------------------------

### 6.7.1 Definition and applicability

Third and higher order mixing of the two interfering RF signals can
produce an interfering signal in the band of the desired channel.
Intermodulation response rejection is a measure of the capability of the
receiver to receive a wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency in
the presence of two or more interfering signals which have a specific
frequency relationship to the wanted signal.

The requirements and this test apply to all types of UTRA for the FDD
UE. The test parameters in tables 6.7.2 and 6.7.4 applies to the FDD UE
supporting Band II, Band III, Band IV, Band V, Band VIII, Band X, Band
XII, Band XIII or Band XIV.

### 6.7.2 Minimum Requirements

The BER shall not exceed 0,001 for the parameters specified in table
6.7.1 and in table 6.7.2.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.8.1 and clause 7.8.2.

Table 6.7.1: Test parameters for Intermodulation Characteristics

+-------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----+
| Parameter         | Level             | Unit           |     |
+-------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----+
| DPCH\_Ec          | \<REFSENS\> +3 dB | dBm / 3,84 MHz |     |
+-------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----+
| Îor               | \<REFÎ~or~\> +3   | dBm / 3,84 MHz |     |
|                   | dB                |                |     |
+-------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----+
| Iouw1 (CW)        | −46               | dBm            |     |
+-------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----+
| Iouw2 mean power  | −46               | dBm            |     |
| (modulated)       |                   |                |     |
+-------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----+
| Fuw1 (offset)     | 10                | -10            | MHz |
+-------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----+
| Fuw2 (offset)     | 20                | -20            | MHz |
+-------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----+
| UE transmitted    | 20 (for Power     | dBm            |     |
| mean power        | class 3 and 3bis) |                |     |
|                   |                   |                |     |
|                   | 18 (for Power     |                |     |
|                   | class 4)          |                |     |
+-------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----+

NOTE 1: Iouw2 (modulated) consists of the common channels needed for
tests as specified in table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data channels as
specified in table E.3.6.

NOTE 2: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the DPCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\>
and the DPCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in Table 6.2A.1.

Table 6.7.2: Test parameters for narrow band intermodulation
characteristics

+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| Parameter  | Unit       | Band II,   | Band III,  |     |      |
|            |            | IV, V, X   | VIII, XII, |     |      |
|            |            |            | XIII, XIV  |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| DPCH\_Ec   | dBm/3.84   | \<         | \<         |     |      |
|            | MHz        | REFSENS\>+ | REFSENS\>+ |     |      |
|            |            | 10 dB      | 10 dB      |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| Î~or~      | dBm/3.84   | \<         | \[\<       |     |      |
|            | MHz        | REFÎ~or~\> | REFÎ~or~\> |     |      |
|            |            | + 10 dB    | +10 dB     |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| I~ouw1~    | dBm        | -44        | -43        |     |      |
| (CW)       |            |            |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| I~ouw2~    | dBm        | -44        | -43        |     |      |
| (GMSK)     |            |            |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| F~uw1~     | MHz        | 3.5        | -3.5       | 3.6 | -3.6 |
| (offset)   |            |            |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| F~uw2~     | MHz        | 5.9        | -5.9       | 6.0 | -6.0 |
| (offset)   |            |            |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| UE         | dBm        | 20 (for    |            |     |      |
| t          |            | Power      |            |     |      |
| ransmitted |            | class 3    |            |     |      |
| mean power |            | and 3bis)  |            |     |      |
|            |            |            |            |     |      |
|            |            | 18 (for    |            |     |      |
|            |            | Power      |            |     |      |
|            |            | class 4)   |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+

NOTE 3: I~ouw2~ (GMSK) is an interfering signal as defined in TS 45.004.
It is a continuous GMSK modulated carrier following the structure of the
GSM signals, but with all modulating bits (including the midamble
period) derived directly from a random or any pseudo random data stream.

NOTE 4: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the DPCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\>
and the DPCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in Table 6.2.1A.

### 6.7.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BER does not exceed 0,001 for the parameters
specified in table 6.7.3 and in table 6.7.4.

The lack of the intermodulation response rejection ability decreases the
coverage area when two or more interfering signals, which have a
specific frequency relationship to the wanted signal, exist.

### 6.7.4 Method of test

##### 6.7.4.1 Initial conditions {#initial-conditions-25 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.7.

2\) RF parameters are set up according to table 6.7.3 and table 6.7.4.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure
specified in TS 34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.2, with the following
exception for information elements in RADIO BEARER SETUP message. With
this exception, the Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to
algorithm 2.

4\) Enter the UE into loopback test mode and start the loopback test.

Table 6.7.2A Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM

  ---------------------------- ------------------
  Information Element          **Value/Remark**
  CHOICE channel requirement   Uplink DPCH info
  \- Power Control Algorithm   Algorithm2
  ---------------------------- ------------------

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 6.7.4.2 Procedure {#procedure-25 .H6}

1\) Set the parameters of the CW generator and interference signal
generator as shown in table 6.7.3 and in table 6.7.4.

2\) Set the power level of UE according to the tables 6.7.3, and table
6.7.4 or send the power control commands (1dB step size should be used.)
to the UE until UE output power measured by Test System shall be kept at
the specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.

3\) Measure the BER of DCH received from the UE at the SS.

### 6.7.5 Test requirements

The measured BER, derived in step 3), shall not exceed 0,001.

Table 6.7.3: Test parameters for Intermodulation Characteristics

+-------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----+
| Parameter         | Level             | Unit           |     |
+-------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----+
| DPCH\_Ec          | \<REFSENS\> +3 dB | dBm / 3.84 MHz |     |
+-------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----+
| Îor               | \<REFÎ~or~\> +3   | dBm / 3.84 MHz |     |
|                   | dB                |                |     |
+-------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----+
| Iouw1 (CW)        | −46               | dBm            |     |
+-------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----+
| Iouw2 mean power  | −46               | dBm            |     |
| (modulated)       |                   |                |     |
+-------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----+
| Fuw1 (offset)     | 10                | -10            | MHz |
+-------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----+
| Fuw2 (offset)     | 20                | -20            | MHz |
+-------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----+
| UE transmitted    | 20 (for Power     | dBm            |     |
| mean power        | class 3 and 3bis) |                |     |
|                   |                   |                |     |
|                   | 18 (for Power     |                |     |
|                   | class 4)          |                |     |
+-------------------+-------------------+----------------+-----+

NOTE 1: Iouw2 (modulated) consists of the common channels needed for
tests as specified in table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data channels as
specified in table E.3.6.

NOTE 2: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the DPCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\>
and the DPCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in Table 6.2A.1.

Table 6.7.4: Test parameters for narrow band intermodulation
characteristics

+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| Parameter  | Unit       | Band II,   | Band III,  |     |      |
|            |            | IV, V, X   | VIII, XII, |     |      |
|            |            |            | XIII, XIV  |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| DPCH\_Ec   | DdBm/3.84  | \<         | \<         |     |      |
|            | MHz        | REFSENS\>+ | REFSENS\>+ |     |      |
|            |            | 10 dB      | 10 dB      |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| Î~or~      | DdBm/3.84  | \<         | \[\<       |     |      |
|            | MHz        | REFÎ~or~\> | REFÎ~or~\> |     |      |
|            |            | + 10 dB    | +10 dB     |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| I~ouw1~    | dBm        | -44        | -43        |     |      |
| (CW)       |            |            |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| I~ouw2~    | dBm        | -44        | -43        |     |      |
| (GMSK)     |            |            |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| F~uw1~     | MHz        | 3.5        | -3.5       | 3.6 | -3.6 |
| (offset)   |            |            |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| F~uw2~     | MHz        | 5.9        | -5.9       | 6.0 | -6.0 |
| (offset)   |            |            |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| UE         | dBm        | 20 (for    |            |     |      |
| t          |            | Power      |            |     |      |
| ransmitted |            | class 3    |            |     |      |
| mean power |            | and 3bis)  |            |     |      |
|            |            |            |            |     |      |
|            |            | 18 (for    |            |     |      |
|            |            | Power      |            |     |      |
|            |            | class 4)   |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+

NOTE 3: I~ouw2~ (GMSK) is an interfering signal as defined in TS 45.004.
It is a continuous GMSK modulated carrier following the structure of the
GSM signals, but with all modulating bits (including the midamble
period) derived directly from a random or any pseudo random data stream.

NOTE 4: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the DPCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\>
and the DPCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in Table 6.2.1A.

NOTE 5: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

6.7A Intermodulation Characteristics for DC-HSDPA
-------------------------------------------------

### 6.7A.1 Definition and applicability

Third and higher order mixing of the two interfering RF signals can
produce an interfering signal in the band of the desired channel.
Intermodulation response rejection is a measure of the capability of the
receiver to receive a wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency in
the presence of two or more interfering signals which have a specific
frequency relationship to the wanted signal.

The test parameters in Tables 6.7A.1 and 6.7.A.4 apply for Release 8 and
later releases to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support
DC-HSDPA.

The test parameters in Tables 6.7A.2 and 6.7A.5 apply to all types of
UTRA for the FDD UE that support DC-HSDPA and are supporting Band II,
Band III, Band IV, Band V, Band VIII, Band X, Band XII, Band XIII or
Band XIV.

### 6.7A.2 Minimum Requirements

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.7A.1.

Table 6.7A.1: Test Parameters for Receive intermodulation
characteristics (DC-HSDPA)

+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| Parameter            | Unit         | Level                |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| HS-PDSCH\_Ec         | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFSENS\> +3 dB    |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| Î~or~                | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFÎ~or~\> +3 dB   |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| I~ouw1~ (CW)         | dBm          | -46                  |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| I~ouw2~ mean power   | dBm          | -46                  |     |
| (modulated)          |              |                      |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| F~uw1~ (offset)      | MHz          | 10                   | -10 |
|                      |              |                      |     |
| (NOTE 2)             |              |                      |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| F~uw2~ (offset)      | MHz          | 20                   | -20 |
|                      |              |                      |     |
| (NOTE 2)             |              |                      |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| UE transmitted mean  | dBm          | 20 (for Power class  |     |
| power                |              | 3 and 3bis)          |     |
|                      |              |                      |     |
|                      |              | 18 (for Power class  |     |
|                      |              | 4)                   |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+

NOTE 1: Iouw2 (modulated) consists of the common channels needed for
tests as specified in Table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data channels as
specified in Table E.3.6.

NOTE 2: Negative offsets refer to the assigned channel frequency of the
lowest carrier frequency used and positive offsets refer to the assigned
channel frequency of the highest carrier frequency used.

NOTE 3: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the
HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
Table 6.2A.1.

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.7A.2.

Table 6.7A.2: Test Parameters for narrow band intermodulation
characteristics (DC-HSDPA)

+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| Parameter  | Unit       | Band II,   | Band III,  |     |      |
|            |            | IV, V, X,  | VIII, XII, |     |      |
|            |            | XXV, XXVI  | XIII, XIV  |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| HS         | dBm/3.84   | \<         | \<         |     |      |
| -PDSCH\_Ec | MHz        | REFSENS\>+ | REFSENS\>+ |     |      |
|            |            | 10 dB      | 10 dB      |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| Î~or~      | dBm/3.84   | \<         | \[\<       |     |      |
|            | MHz        | REFÎ~or~\> | REFÎ~or~\> |     |      |
|            |            | + 10 dB    | +10 dB     |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| I~ouw1~    | dBm        | -44        | -43        |     |      |
| (CW)       |            |            |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| I~ouw2~    | dBm        | -44        | -43        |     |      |
| (GMSK)     |            |            |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| F~uw1~     | MHz        | 3.5        | -3.5       | 3.6 | -3.6 |
| (offset)   |            |            |            |     |      |
|            |            |            |            |     |      |
| (NOTE 2)   |            |            |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| F~uw2~     | MHz        | 5.9        | -5.9       | 6.0 | -6.0 |
| (offset)   |            |            |            |     |      |
|            |            |            |            |     |      |
| (NOTE 2)   |            |            |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| UE         | dBm        | 20 (for    |            |     |      |
| t          |            | Power      |            |     |      |
| ransmitted |            | class 3    |            |     |      |
| mean power |            | and 3bis)  |            |     |      |
|            |            |            |            |     |      |
|            |            | 18 (for    |            |     |      |
|            |            | Power      |            |     |      |
|            |            | class 4)   |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+

NOTE 4: I~ouw2~ (GMSK) is an interfering signal as defined in TS 45.004
\[6\].

NOTE 5: Negative offsets refer to the assigned channel frequency of the
lowest carrier frequency used and positive offsets refer to the assigned
channel frequency of the highest carrier frequency used.

NOTE 6: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the
HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
Table 6.2A.1.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.8.1A and clause 7.8.2A.

### 6.7A.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BLER of HS-PDSCH does not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in table 6.7A.4 and in table 6.7A.5 for the DL
reference channel H-Set 12 specified in Annex C.8.1.12.

The lack of the intermodulation response rejection ability decreases the
DC-HSDPA coverage area when two or more interfering signals, which have
a specific frequency relationship to the wanted signal, exist.

### 6.7A.4 Method of test

##### 6.7A.4.1 Initial conditions {#a.4.1-initial-conditions-19 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.34.

2\) RF parameters are set up according to table 6.7A.4 and table 6.7A.5.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic DC-HSDPA setup procedure
specified in TS 34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.13, with exceptions for
information elements listed in Table 6.7A.3. With this exception, the
Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to algorithm 2.

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-test-loop-mode1-25 .H6}

Table 6.7A.3: Specific Message Contents for Intermodulation
Characteristics (DC-HSDPA)

  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                       Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2         
  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (DC-HSDPA)

  ----------------------------------- ------------------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 Value/remark                   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                                   Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                                  
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                            
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2                     
  Downlink HS-PDSCH Information                                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                            
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured        Not Present                    Rel-7
  \- HS-DSCH TB size table            octet aligned (for H-Set 12)   Rel-7
  Downlink secondary cell info FDD                                   Rel-8
  \- CHOICE Configuration info        New configuration              
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured        Not Present                    
  \- HS-DSCH TB size table            octet aligned (for H-Set 12)   
  ----------------------------------- ------------------------------ ---------

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 6.7A.4.2 Procedure {#a.4.2-procedure-19 .H6}

1\) Set the parameters of the CW generator and interference signal
generator as shown in table 6.7A.4 and in table 6.7A.5.

2\) Set the power level of UE according to the tables 6.7A.4, and table
6.7A.5 or send the power control commands (1dB step size should be
used.) to the UE until UE output power measured by Test System shall be
kept at the specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.

3\) Measure the BLER of HS-PDSCH received from the UE at the SS by
counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the UL HS-DPCCH (BLER =
(NACK + statDTX)/(NACK + statDTX + ACK)).

### 6.7A.5 Test requirements

The measured BLER, derived in step 3), shall not exceed 0.1 on each
individual cell. The minimum number of measurements required for a
statistically significant result to this test is clarified in annex
F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.0.

Table 6.7A.4: Test parameters for Intermodulation Characteristics
(DC-HSDPA)

+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| Parameter            | Unit         | Level                |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| HS-PDSCH\_Ec         | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFSENS\> +3 dB    |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| Î~or~                | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFÎ~or~\> +3 dB   |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| I~ouw1~ (CW)         | dBm          | -46                  |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| I~ouw2~ mean power   | dBm          | -46                  |     |
| (modulated)          |              |                      |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| F~uw1~ (offset)      | MHz          | 10                   | -10 |
|                      |              |                      |     |
| (NOTE 2)             |              |                      |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| F~uw2~ (offset)      | MHz          | 20                   | -20 |
|                      |              |                      |     |
| (NOTE 2)             |              |                      |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| UE transmitted mean  | dBm          | 20 (for Power class  |     |
| power                |              | 3 and 3bis)          |     |
|                      |              |                      |     |
|                      |              | 18 (for Power class  |     |
|                      |              | 4)                   |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+

NOTE 1: Iouw2 (modulated) consists of the common channels needed for
tests as specified in Table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data channels as
specified in Table E.3.6.

NOTE 2: Negative offsets refer to the assigned channel frequency of the
lowest carrier frequency used and positive offsets refer to the assigned
channel frequency of the highest carrier frequency used.

NOTE 3: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the
HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
Table 6.2A.1.

Table 6.7A.5: Test parameters for narrow band intermodulation
characteristics (DC-HSDPA)

+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| Parameter  | Unit       | Band II,   | Band III,  |     |      |
|            |            | IV, V, X,  | VIII, XII, |     |      |
|            |            | XXV, XXVI  | XIII, XIV  |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| HS         | dBm/3.84   | \<         | \<         |     |      |
| -PDSCH\_Ec | MHz        | REFSENS\>+ | REFSENS\>+ |     |      |
|            |            | 10 dB      | 10 dB      |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| Î~or~      | dBm/3.84   | \<         | \[\<       |     |      |
|            | MHz        | REFÎ~or~\> | REFÎ~or~\> |     |      |
|            |            | + 10 dB    | +10 dB     |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| I~ouw1~    | dBm        | -44        | -43        |     |      |
| (CW)       |            |            |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| I~ouw2~    | dBm        | -44        | -43        |     |      |
| (GMSK)     |            |            |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| F~uw1~     | MHz        | 3.5        | -3.5       | 3.6 | -3.6 |
| (offset)   |            |            |            |     |      |
|            |            |            |            |     |      |
| (NOTE 2)   |            |            |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| F~uw2~     | MHz        | 5.9        | -5.9       | 6.0 | -6.0 |
| (offset)   |            |            |            |     |      |
|            |            |            |            |     |      |
| (NOTE 2)   |            |            |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| UE         | dBm        | 20 (for    |            |     |      |
| t          |            | Power      |            |     |      |
| ransmitted |            | class 3    |            |     |      |
| mean power |            | and 3bis)  |            |     |      |
|            |            |            |            |     |      |
|            |            | 18 (for    |            |     |      |
|            |            | Power      |            |     |      |
|            |            | class 4)   |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+

NOTE 4: I~ouw2~ (GMSK) is an interfering signal as defined in TS 45.004
\[6\].

NOTE 5: Negative offsets refer to the assigned channel frequency of the
lowest carrier frequency used and positive offsets refer to the assigned
channel frequency of the highest carrier frequency used.

NOTE 6: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the
HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
Table 6.2A.1.

NOTE 7: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

6.7B Intermodulation Characteristics for DB-DC-HSDPA
----------------------------------------------------

### 6.7B.1 Definition and applicability

Third and higher order mixing of the two interfering RF signals can
produce an interfering signal in the band of the desired channel.
Intermodulation response rejection is a measure of the capability of the
receiver to receive a wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency in
the presence of two or more interfering signals which have a specific
frequency relationship to the wanted signal.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 9 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support DB-DC-HSDPA.

DB-DC-HSDPA is designed to operate in configurations specified in clause
4.2.

### 6.7B.2 Minimum Requirements

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.7B.1.

Table 6.7B.1: Test Parameters for Receive intermodulation
characteristics (DB-DC-HSDPA)

+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| Parameter            | Unit         | Level                |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| HS-PDSCH\_Ec         | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFSENS\> +3 dB    |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| Î~or~                | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFÎ~or~\> +3 dB   |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| I~ouw1~ (CW)         | dBm          | -46                  |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| I~ouw2~ mean power   | dBm          | -46                  |     |
| (modulated)          |              |                      |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| F~uw1~ (offset)      | MHz          | 10                   | -10 |
|                      |              |                      |     |
| (NOTE 2)             |              |                      |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| F~uw2~ (offset)      | MHz          | 20                   | -20 |
|                      |              |                      |     |
| (NOTE 2)             |              |                      |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| UE transmitted mean  | dBm          | 20 (for Power class  |     |
| power                |              | 3 and 3bis)          |     |
|                      |              |                      |     |
|                      |              | 18 (for Power class  |     |
|                      |              | 4)                   |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+

NOTE 1: Iouw2 (modulated) consists of the common channels needed for
tests as specified in Table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data channels as
specified in Table E.3.6.

NOTE 2: For DC-HSDPA, negative offset refers to the assigned channel
frequency of the lowest carrier frequency used and positive offset
refers to the assigned channel frequency of the highest carrier
frequency used. For DB-DC-HSDPA, offset refers to the assigned channel
frequencies of the individual cells.

NOTE 3: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the
HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
Table 6.2B.1.

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.7B.2.

Table 6.7B.2: Test Parameters for narrow band intermodulation
characteristics (DB-DC-HSDPA)

+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| Parameter  | Unit       | Band II,   | Band III,  |     |      |
|            |            | IV, V, X   | VIII, XII, |     |      |
|            |            |            | XIII, XIV  |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| HS         | dBm/3.84   | \<         | \<         |     |      |
| -PDSCH\_Ec | MHz        | REFSENS\>+ | REFSENS\>+ |     |      |
|            |            | 10 dB      | 10 dB      |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| Î~or~      | dBm/3.84   | \<         | \[\<       |     |      |
|            | MHz        | REFÎ~or~\> | REFÎ~or~\> |     |      |
|            |            | + 10 dB    | +10 dB     |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| I~ouw1~    | dBm        | -44        | -43        |     |      |
| (CW)       |            |            |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| I~ouw2~    | dBm        | -44        | -43        |     |      |
| (GMSK)     |            |            |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| F~uw1~     | MHz        | 3.5        | -3.5       | 3.6 | -3.6 |
| (offset)   |            |            |            |     |      |
|            |            |            |            |     |      |
| (NOTE 2)   |            |            |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| F~uw2~     | MHz        | 5.9        | -5.9       | 6.0 | -6.0 |
| (offset)   |            |            |            |     |      |
|            |            |            |            |     |      |
| (NOTE 2)   |            |            |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| UE         | dBm        | 20 (for    |            |     |      |
| t          |            | Power      |            |     |      |
| ransmitted |            | class 3    |            |     |      |
| mean power |            | and 3bis)  |            |     |      |
|            |            |            |            |     |      |
|            |            | 18 (for    |            |     |      |
|            |            | Power      |            |     |      |
|            |            | class 4)   |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+

NOTE 4: I~ouw2~ (GMSK) is an interfering signal as defined in TS 45.004
\[6\].

NOTE 5: For DC-HSDPA, negative offset refers to the assigned channel
frequency of the lowest carrier frequency used and positive offset
refers to the assigned channel frequency of the highest carrier
frequency used. For DB-DC-HSDPA, offset refers to the assigned channel
frequencies of the individual cells.

NOTE 6: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the
HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
Table 6.2B.1.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.8.1A and clause 7.8.2A.

### 6.7B.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BLER of HS-PDSCH does not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in table 6.7B.4 and in table 6.7B.5 for the DL
reference channel H-Set 12 specified in Annex C.8.1.12.

The lack of the intermodulation response rejection ability decreases the
DB-DC-HSDPA coverage area when two or more interfering signals, which
have a specific frequency relationship to the wanted signal, exist.

### 6.7B.4 Method of test

##### 6.7B.4.1 Initial conditions {#b.4.1-initial-conditions-15 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.34.

2\) RF parameters are set up according to table 6.7B.4 and table 6.7B.5.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure
specified in TS 34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.13, with exceptions for
information elements listed in Table 6.7B.3. With this exception, the
Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to algorithm 2.

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-test-loop-mode1-26 .H6}

Table 6.7B.3: Specific Message Contents for Intermodulation
Characteristics (DB-DC-HSDPA)

  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                       Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2         
  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (DC-HSDPA) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-dc-hsdpa-13 .H6}

  ----------------------------------- ------------------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 Value/remark                   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                                   Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                                  
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                            
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2                     
  Downlink HS-PDSCH Information                                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                            
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured        Not Present                    Rel-7
  \- HS-DSCH TB size table            octet aligned (for H-Set 12)   Rel-7
  Downlink secondary cell info FDD                                   Rel-8
  \- CHOICE Configuration info        New configuration              
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured        Not Present                    
  \- HS-DSCH TB size table            octet aligned (for H-Set 12)   
  ----------------------------------- ------------------------------ ---------

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 6.7B.4.2 Procedure {#b.4.2-procedure-15 .H6}

1\) Set the parameters of the CW generator and interference signal
generator as shown in table 6.7B.4 and in table 6.7B.5.

2\) Set the power level of UE according to the tables 6.7B.4, and table
6.7B.5 or send the power control commands (1dB step size should be
used.) to the UE until UE output power measured by Test System shall be
kept at the specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.

3\) Measure the BLER of HS-PDSCH received from the UE at the SS by
counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the UL HS-DPCCH (BLER =
(NACK + statDTX)/(NACK + statDTX + ACK)).

### 6.7B.5 Test requirements

The measured BLER, derived in step 3), shall not exceed 0.1 on each
individual cell. The minimum number of measurements required for a
statistically significant result to this test is clarified in annex
F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.0.

Table 6.7B.4: Test parameters for Intermodulation Characteristics
(DB-DC-HSDPA)

+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| Parameter            | Unit         | Level                |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| HS-PDSCH\_Ec         | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFSENS\> +3 dB    |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| Î~or~                | dBm/3.84 MHz | \<REFÎ~or~\> +3 dB   |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| I~ouw1~ (CW)         | dBm          | -46                  |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| I~ouw2~ mean power   | dBm          | -46                  |     |
| (modulated)          |              |                      |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| F~uw1~ (offset)      | MHz          | 10                   | -10 |
|                      |              |                      |     |
| (NOTE 2)             |              |                      |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| F~uw2~ (offset)      | MHz          | 20                   | -20 |
|                      |              |                      |     |
| (NOTE 2)             |              |                      |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+
| UE transmitted mean  | dBm          | 20 (for Power class  |     |
| power                |              | 3 and 3bis)          |     |
|                      |              |                      |     |
|                      |              | 18 (for Power class  |     |
|                      |              | 4)                   |     |
+----------------------+--------------+----------------------+-----+

NOTE 1: Iouw2 (modulated) consists of the common channels needed for
tests as specified in Table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data channels as
specified in Table E.3.6.

NOTE 2: Offset refers to the assigned channel frequencies of the
individual cells.

NOTE 3: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the
HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
Table 6.2B.1.

Table 6.7B.5: Test parameters for narrow band intermodulation
characteristics (DB-DC-HSDPA)

+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| Parameter  | Unit       | Band II,   | Band VIII  |     |      |
|            |            | IV, V      |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| HS         | dBm/3.84   | \<         | \<         |     |      |
| -PDSCH\_Ec | MHz        | REFSENS\>+ | REFSENS\>+ |     |      |
|            |            | 10 dB      | 10 dB      |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| Î~or~      | dBm/3.84   | \<         | \[\<       |     |      |
|            | MHz        | REFÎ~or~\> | REFÎ~or~\> |     |      |
|            |            | + 10 dB    | +10 dB     |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| I~ouw1~    | dBm        | -44        | -43        |     |      |
| (CW)       |            |            |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| I~ouw2~    | dBm        | -44        | -43        |     |      |
| (GMSK)     |            |            |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| F~uw1~     | MHz        | 3.5        | -3.5       | 3.6 | -3.6 |
| (offset)   |            |            |            |     |      |
|            |            |            |            |     |      |
| (NOTE 2)   |            |            |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| F~uw2~     | MHz        | 5.9        | -5.9       | 6.0 | -6.0 |
| (offset)   |            |            |            |     |      |
|            |            |            |            |     |      |
| (NOTE 2)   |            |            |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+
| UE         | dBm        | 20 (for    |            |     |      |
| t          |            | Power      |            |     |      |
| ransmitted |            | class 3    |            |     |      |
| mean power |            | and 3bis)  |            |     |      |
|            |            |            |            |     |      |
|            |            | 18 (for    |            |     |      |
|            |            | Power      |            |     |      |
|            |            | class 4)   |            |     |      |
+------------+------------+------------+------------+-----+------+

NOTE 4: I~ouw2~ (GMSK) is an interfering signal as defined in TS 45.004
\[6\].

NOTE 5: Offset refers to the assigned channel frequencies of the
individual cells.

NOTE 6: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the
HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
Table 6.2B.1.

NOTE 7: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

NOTE 8: Band II and band IV correspond to DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 2,
band V corresponds to DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 3 and band VIII
corresponds to DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 1 as given in clause 4.2.

6.7C Intermodulation Characteristics for DC-HSUPA
-------------------------------------------------

### 6.7C.1 Definition and applicability

Third and higher order mixing of the two interfering RF signals can
produce an interfering signal in the band of the desired channel.
Intermodulation response rejection is a measure of the capability of the
receiver to receive a wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency in
the presence of two or more interfering signals which have a specific
frequency relationship to the wanted signal.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 9 and later releases
for the FDD UE that supports HSDPA and Dual Cell E-DCH.

### 6.7C.2 Minimum Requirements

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.7C.1 and Table 6.7C.2.

Table 6.7C.1: Receive intermodulation characteristics (DC-HSUPA)

+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| Parameter                      | Unit | Level                           |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| I~ouw1~ (CW)                   | dBm  | -46                             |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| I~ouw2~ mean power (modulated) | dBm  | -46                             |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| F~uw1~ (offset)                | MHz  | 10                              | -10 |
|                                |      |                                 |     |
| (NOTE 2)                       |      |                                 |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| F~uw2~ (offset)                | MHz  | 20                              | -20 |
|                                |      |                                 |     |
| (NOTE 2)                       |      |                                 |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| UE transmitted mean power      | dBm  | 20 (for Power class 3 and 3bis) |     |
|                                |      |                                 |     |
|                                |      | 18 (for Power class 4)          |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+

NOTE 1: Iouw2 (modulated) consists of the common channels needed for
tests as specified in Table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data channels as
specified in Table E.3.6.

NOTE 2: Negative offsets refer to the assigned channel frequency of the
lowest carrier frequency used and positive offsets refer to the assigned
channel frequency of the highest carrier frequency used.

Table 6.7C.2: Reference input powers for intermodulation (DC-HSUPA)

+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| Operating Band              | Unit         | HS-PDSCH\_Ec | Î~or~ |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| I                           | dBm/3.84 MHz | -104.7       | -94.4 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| II                          | dBm/3.84 MHz | -104.4       | -94.1 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| III                         | dBm/3.84 MHz | -104.1       | -93.8 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| IV                          | dBm/3.84 MHz | -104.7       | -94.4 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| V                           | dBm/3.84 MHz | -102         | -91.7 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| VI                          | dBm/3.84 MHz | -102.2       | -91.9 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| VII                         | dBm/3.84 MHz | -104.4       | -94.1 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| VIII                        | dBm/3.84 MHz | -99.8        | -89.5 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| IX                          | dBm/3.84 MHz | -104.6       | -94.3 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| X                           | dBm/3.84 MHz | -104.7       | -94.4 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XI                          | dBm/3.84 MHz | -100         | -89.7 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XII                         | dBm/3.84 MHz | N/A          | N/A   |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XIII                        | dBm/3.84 MHz | N/A          | N/A   |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XIV                         | dBm/3.84 MHz | N/A          | N/A   |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XIX                         | dBm/3.84 MHz | -102.2       | -91.9 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XX                          | dBm/3.84 MHz | TBD          | TBD   |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XXI                         | dBm/3.84 MHz | -100         | -89.7 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XXII                        | dBm/3.84 MHz | TBD          | TBD   |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XXV                         | dBm/3.84 MHz | -103.5       | -93.2 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XXVI                        | dBm/3.84 MHz | -99.8        | -89.5 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| NOTE 1: For the UE which    |              |              |       |
| supports both Band III and  |              |              |       |
| Band IX operating           |              |              |       |
| frequencies, the reference  |              |              |       |
| sensitivity level of TBD    |              |              |       |
| dBm \<REF\_Ec~,intermod~\>  |              |              |       |
| shall apply for Band IX.    |              |              |       |
| The corresponding           |              |              |       |
| \<REFÎ~or,intermod~\> is    |              |              |       |
| TBD dBm.                    |              |              |       |
|                             |              |              |       |
| NOTE 2: For the UE which    |              |              |       |
| supports both Band XI and   |              |              |       |
| Band XXI operating          |              |              |       |
| frequencies, the reference  |              |              |       |
| input power level is FFS.   |              |              |       |
|                             |              |              |       |
| NOTE 3: For the UE which    |              |              |       |
| supports DB-DC-HSDPA        |              |              |       |
| configuration in clause 4.2 |              |              |       |
| the \< HS-PDSCH\_Ec \> and  |              |              |       |
| \< Î~or~ \> are allowed to  |              |              |       |
| be increased by an amount   |              |              |       |
| defined in Table 7.12 of TS |              |              |       |
| 25.101\[1\] clause 7.10.    |              |              |       |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.7C.3 and Table 6.7C.4.

Table 6.7C.3: Receive intermodulation for narrow band (DC-HSUPA)

+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+-----+------+
| Parameter    | Unit | Band II, IV, | Band III,    |     |      |
|              |      | V, X, XXV,   | VIII, XII,   |     |      |
|              |      | XXVI         | XIII, XIV    |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+-----+------+
| I~ouw1~ (CW) | dBm  | -44          | -43          |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+-----+------+
| I~ouw2~      | dBm  | -44          | -43          |     |      |
| (GMSK)       |      |              |              |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+-----+------+
| F~uw1~       | MHz  | 3.5          | -3.5         | 3.6 | -3.6 |
| (offset)     |      |              |              |     |      |
|              |      |              |              |     |      |
| (NOTE 2)     |      |              |              |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+-----+------+
| F~uw2~       | MHz  | 5.9          | -5.9         | 6.0 | -6.0 |
| (offset)     |      |              |              |     |      |
|              |      |              |              |     |      |
| (NOTE 2)     |      |              |              |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+-----+------+
| UE           | dBm  | 20 (for      |              |     |      |
| transmitted  |      | Power class  |              |     |      |
| mean power   |      | 3 and 3bis)  |              |     |      |
|              |      |              |              |     |      |
|              |      | 18 (for      |              |     |      |
|              |      | Power class  |              |     |      |
|              |      | 4)           |              |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+-----+------+

NOTE 1: I~ouw2~ (GMSK) is an interfering signal as defined in TS 45.004
\[6\].

NOTE 2: Negative offsets refer to the assigned channel frequency of the
lowest carrier frequency used and positive offsets refer to the assigned
channel frequency of the highest carrier frequency used.

Table 6.7C.4: Reference input powers for intermodulation, narrow band,
(DC-HSUPA)

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- -------------- -------
  Operating Band                                                                                                                                                                     Unit           HS-PDSCH\_Ec   Î~or~
  II                                                                                                                                                                                 dBm/3.84 MHz   -86.7          -76.4
  III                                                                                                                                                                                dBm/3.84 MHz   -85.7          -75.4
  IV                                                                                                                                                                                 dBm/3.84 MHz   -86.7          -76.4
  V                                                                                                                                                                                  dBm/3.84 MHz   -86.7          -76.4
  VIII                                                                                                                                                                               dBm/3.84 MHz   -85.6          -75.3
  X                                                                                                                                                                                  dBm/3.84 MHz   -86.7          -76.4
  XII                                                                                                                                                                                dBm/3.84 MHz   N/A            N/A
  XIII                                                                                                                                                                               dBm/3.84 MHz   N/A            N/A
  XIV                                                                                                                                                                                dBm/3.84 MHz   N/A            N/A
  XXV                                                                                                                                                                                dBm/3.84 MHz   -84.7          -74.4
  XXVI                                                                                                                                                                               dBm/3.84 MHz   -85.6          -75.3
  NOTE 1: For the UE which supports DB-DC-HSDPA configuration in clause 4.2 the \< HS-PDSCH\_Ec \> and \< Î~or~ \> are allowed to be increased by an amount defined in Table 6.1A.                                 
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- -------------- -------

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.8.1B and clause 7.8.2B.

### 6.7C.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BLER of HS-PDSCH does not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in table 6.7C.6, table 6.7C.7 table 6.7C.8 and in
table 6.7C.9 for the DL reference channel H-Set 12 specified in Annex
C.8.1.12.

The lack of the intermodulation response rejection ability decreases the
DC-HSUPA coverage area when two or more interfering signals, which have
a specific frequency relationship to the wanted signal, exist.

### 6.7C.4 Method of test

##### 6.7C.4.1 Initial conditions {#c.4.1-initial-conditions-15 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.44.

2\) RF parameters are set up according to table 6.7C.6, table 6.7C.7
table 6.7C.8 and table 6.7C.9.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic call setup procedure
specified in TS 34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.14, with exceptions for
information elements listed in Table 6.7C.5. With this exception, the
Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to algorithm 2.

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-test-loop-mode1-27 .H6}

Table 6.7C.5: Specific Message Contents for Intermodulation
Characteristics (DC-HSUPA)

  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                       Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2         
  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (DC-HSDPA) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-dc-hsdpa-14 .H6}

  ----------------------------------- ------------------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 Value/remark                   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                                   Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                                  
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                            
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2                     
  Downlink HS-PDSCH Information                                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                            
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured        Not Present                    Rel-7
  \- HS-DSCH TB size table            octet aligned (for H-Set 12)   Rel-7
  Downlink secondary cell info FDD                                   Rel-8
  \- CHOICE Configuration info        New configuration              
  \- Downlink 64QAM configured        Not Present                    
  \- HS-DSCH TB size table            octet aligned (for H-Set 12)   
  ----------------------------------- ------------------------------ ---------

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 6.7C.4.2 Procedure {#c.4.2-procedure-15 .H6}

1\) Set the parameters of the CW generator and interference signal
generator as shown in table 6.7C.6 and in table 6.7C.8.

2\) Set the power level of UE according to the table 6.7C.6, table
6.7C.7 table 6.7C.8 and table 6.7C.9 or send the power control commands
(1dB step size should be used.) to the UE until UE output power measured
by Test System shall be kept at the specified power level with ±1dB
tolerance.

3\) Measure the BLER of HS-PDSCH received from the UE at the SS by
counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the UL HS-DPCCH (BLER =
(NACK + statDTX)/(NACK + statDTX + ACK)).

### 6.7C.5 Test requirements

The measured BLER, derived in step 3), shall not exceed 0.1 on each
individual cell. The minimum number of measurements required for a
statistically significant result to this test is clarified in annex
F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.0.

Table 6.7C.6: Test parameters for Intermodulation Characteristics
(DC-HSUPA)

+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| Parameter                      | Unit | Level                           |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| I~ouw1~ (CW)                   | dBm  | -46                             |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| I~ouw2~ mean power (modulated) | dBm  | -46                             |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| F~uw1~ (offset)                | MHz  | 10                              | -10 |
|                                |      |                                 |     |
| (NOTE 2)                       |      |                                 |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| F~uw2~ (offset)                | MHz  | 20                              | -20 |
|                                |      |                                 |     |
| (NOTE 2)                       |      |                                 |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| UE transmitted mean power      | dBm  | 20 (for Power class 3 and 3bis) |     |
|                                |      |                                 |     |
|                                |      | 18 (for Power class 4)          |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+

NOTE 1: Iouw2 (modulated) consists of the common channels needed for
tests as specified in Table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data channels as
specified in Table E.3.6.

NOTE 2: Offset refers to the assigned channel frequencies of individual
cells.

Table 6.7C.7: Test Parameters for reference input powers\
for intermodulation characteristics (DC-HSUPA)

+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| Operating Band              | Unit         | HS-PDSCH\_Ec | Î~or~ |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| I                           | dBm/3.84 MHz | -104.7       | -94.4 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| II                          | dBm/3.84 MHz | -104.4       | -94.1 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| III                         | dBm/3.84 MHz | -104.1       | -93.8 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| IV                          | dBm/3.84 MHz | -104.7       | -94.4 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| V                           | dBm/3.84 MHz | -102         | -91.7 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| VI                          | dBm/3.84 MHz | -102.2       | -91.9 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| VII                         | dBm/3.84 MHz | -104.4       | -94.1 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| VIII                        | dBm/3.84 MHz | -99.8        | -89.5 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| IX                          | dBm/3.84 MHz | -104.6       | -94.3 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| X                           | dBm/3.84 MHz | -104.7       | -94.4 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XI                          | dBm/3.84 MHz | -100         | -89.7 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XII                         | dBm/3.84 MHz | N/A          | N/A   |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XIII                        | dBm/3.84 MHz | N/A          | N/A   |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XIV                         | dBm/3.84 MHz | N/A          | N/A   |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XIX                         | dBm/3.84 MHz | -102.2       | -91.9 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XX                          | dBm/3.84 MHz | TBD          | TBD   |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XXI                         | dBm/3.84 MHz | -100         | -89.7 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XXII                        | dBm/3.84 MHz | TBD          | TBD   |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| XXV                         | dBm/3.84 MHz | -103.5       | -93.2 |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+
| NOTE 1: For the UE which    |              |              |       |
| supports both Band III and  |              |              |       |
| Band IX operating           |              |              |       |
| frequencies, the reference  |              |              |       |
| sensitivity level of TBD    |              |              |       |
| dBm \<REF\_Ec~,intermod~\>  |              |              |       |
| shall apply for Band IX.    |              |              |       |
| The corresponding           |              |              |       |
| \<REFÎ~or,intermod~\> is    |              |              |       |
| TBD dBm                     |              |              |       |
|                             |              |              |       |
| NOTE 2: For the UE which    |              |              |       |
| supports both Band XI and   |              |              |       |
| Band XXI operating          |              |              |       |
| frequencies, the reference  |              |              |       |
| input power level is FFS.   |              |              |       |
|                             |              |              |       |
| NOTE 3: For the UE which    |              |              |       |
| supports DB-DC-HSDPA        |              |              |       |
| configuration in clause4.2  |              |              |       |
| the \< HS‑PDSCH\_Ec \> and  |              |              |       |
| \< Î~or~ \> are allowed to  |              |              |       |
| be increased by an amount   |              |              |       |
| defined in Table 6.1A       |              |              |       |
+-----------------------------+--------------+--------------+-------+

Table 6.7C.8: Test Parameters for narrow band intermodulation
characteristics (DC-HSUPA)

+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+-----+------+
| Parameter    | Unit | Band II, IV, | Band III,    |     |      |
|              |      | V, X         | VIII, XII,   |     |      |
|              |      |              | XIII, XIV    |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+-----+------+
| I~ouw1~ (CW) | dBm  | -44          | -43          |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+-----+------+
| I~ouw2~      | dBm  | -44          | -43          |     |      |
| (GMSK)       |      |              |              |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+-----+------+
| F~uw1~       | MHz  | 3.5          | -3.5         | 3.6 | -3.6 |
| (offset)     |      |              |              |     |      |
|              |      |              |              |     |      |
| (NOTE 2)     |      |              |              |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+-----+------+
| F~uw2~       | MHz  | 5.9          | -5.9         | 6.0 | -6.0 |
| (offset)     |      |              |              |     |      |
|              |      |              |              |     |      |
| (NOTE 2)     |      |              |              |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+-----+------+
| UE           | dBm  | 20 (for      |              |     |      |
| transmitted  |      | Power class  |              |     |      |
| mean power   |      | 3 and 3bis)  |              |     |      |
|              |      |              |              |     |      |
|              |      | 18 (for      |              |     |      |
|              |      | Power class  |              |     |      |
|              |      | 4)           |              |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+-----+------+

NOTE 1: I~ouw2~ (GMSK) is an interfering signal as defined in TS 45.004
\[6\].

NOTE 2: Offset refers to the assigned channel frequencies of the
individual cells.

NOTE 3: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

Table 6.7C.9: Test Parameters for reference input powers\
for narrow band intermodulation characteristics (DC-HSUPA)

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- -------------- -------
  Operating Band                                                                                                                                                                   Unit           HS-PDSCH\_Ec   Î~or~
  II                                                                                                                                                                               dBm/3.84 MHz   -86.7          -76.4
  III                                                                                                                                                                              dBm/3.84 MHz   -85.7          -75.4
  IV                                                                                                                                                                               dBm/3.84 MHz   -86.7          -76.4
  V                                                                                                                                                                                dBm/3.84 MHz   -86.7          -76.4
  VIII                                                                                                                                                                             dBm/3.84 MHz   -85.6          -75.3
  X                                                                                                                                                                                dBm/3.84 MHz   -86.7          -76.4
  XII                                                                                                                                                                              dBm/3.84 MHz   N/A            N/A
  XIII                                                                                                                                                                             dBm/3.84 MHz   N/A            N/A
  XIV                                                                                                                                                                              dBm/3.84 MHz   N/A            N/A
  XXV                                                                                                                                                                              dBm/3.84 MHz   -84.7          -74.4
  NOTE 1: For the UE which supports DB-DC-HSDPA configuration in clause 4.2the \< HS-PDSCH\_Ec \> and \< Î~or~ \> are allowed to be increased by an amount defined in Table6.1A.                                 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- -------------- -------

6.7D Intermodulation Characteristics for single uplink single band 4C-HSDPA
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 6.7D.1 Definition and applicability

Third and higher order mixing of the two interfering RF signals can
produce an interfering signal in the band of the desired channel.
Intermodulation response rejection is a measure of the capability of the
receiver to receive a wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency in
the presence of two or more interfering signals which have a specific
frequency relationship to the wanted signal.

The test parameters in Tables 6.7D.1 and 6.7D.4 apply for Release 10 and
later releases to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support single
band 4C-HSDPA, single uplink operation.

Single band 4C-HSDPA is designed to operate in configurations specified
in clause 4.2.

### 6.7D.2 Minimum Requirements

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.7D.1 and 6.7D.2.

Table 6.7D.1: Test parameters for receive intermodulation
characteristics, single band 4C-HSDPA, single uplink operation

+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| Parameter                      | Unit | Level                           |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| I~ouw1~ (CW)                   | dBm  | -46                             |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| I~ouw2~ mean power (modulated) | dBm  | -46                             |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| F~uw1~ (offset)                | MHz  | 10                              | -10 |
|                                |      |                                 |     |
| (NOTE 2)                       |      |                                 |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| F~uw2~ (offset)                | MHz  | 20                              | -20 |
|                                |      |                                 |     |
| (NOTE 2)                       |      |                                 |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| UE transmitted mean power      | dBm  | 20 (for Power class 3 and 3bis) |     |
|                                |      |                                 |     |
|                                |      | 18 (for Power class 4)          |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+

NOTE 1: Iouw2 (modulated) consists of the common channels needed for
tests as specified in Table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data channels as
specified in Table E.3.6.

NOTE 2: Negative offsets refer to the assigned channel frequency of the
lowest carrier frequency used and positive offsets refer to the assigned
channel frequency of the highest carrier frequency used.

Table 6.7D.2: Intermodulation requirements, single band 4C-HSDPA, single
uplink operation

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| **Single    | **DL Band** | **H         | **Î~or\ ~** | **UL-DL     |
| band        |             | S-PDSCH\_Ec |             | carrier     |
| 4C-HSDPA    |             | (dBm        | **(dBm      | s           |
| Conf        |             | /3.84MHz)** | /3.84MHz)** | eparation** |
| iguration** |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| I-3         | I           | \<          | \<R         | Minimum     |
|             |             | REFSENS\>+3 | EFÎ~or~\>+3 |             |
|             |             | dB          | dB          |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

NOTE 3: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the
HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
Table 6.2C.1.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.8.1C.1.

### 6.7D.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BLER of HS-PDSCH does not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in table 6.7D.4 and in table 6.7D.5 for the DL
reference channel H-Set 1B/1C specified in Annex C.8.1.1.

The lack of the intermodulation response rejection ability decreases the
4C-HSDPA coverage area when two or more interfering signals, which have
a specific frequency relationship to the wanted signal, exist.

### 6.7D.4 Method of test

##### 6.7D.4.1 Initial conditions {#d.4.1-initial-conditions-12 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.51.

2\) RF parameters are set up according to table 6.7D.4 and table 6.7D.5.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic 4C-HSDPA setup procedure
specified in TS 34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.16, with exceptions for
information elements listed in Table 6.7D.3. With this exception, the
Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to algorithm 2.

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-test-loop-mode1-28 .H6}

Table 6.7D.3: Specific Message Contents for Intermodulation
Characteristics\
(Single Uplink Single band 4C-HSDPA)

  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                       Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2         
  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 6.7D.4.2 Procedure {#d.4.2-procedure-12 .H6}

1\) Set the parameters of the CW generator and interference signal
generator as shown in table 6.7D.4 and in table 6.7D.5.

2\) Set the power level of UE according to the tables 6.7D.4, and table
6.7D.5 or send the power control commands (1dB step size should be
used.) to the UE until UE output power measured by Test System shall be
kept at the specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.

3\) Measure the BLER of HS-PDSCH received from the UE at the SS by
counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the UL HS-DPCCH (BLER =
(NACK + statDTX)/(NACK + statDTX + ACK)).

### 6.7D.5 Test requirements

The measured BLER, derived in step 3), shall not exceed 0.1 on each
individual cell. The minimum number of measurements required for a
statistically significant result to this test is clarified in annex
F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.0.

Table 6.7D.4: Test parameters for receive intermodulation
characteristics, single band 4C-HSDPA, single uplink operation

+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| Parameter                      | Unit | Level                           |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| I~ouw1~ (CW)                   | dBm  | -46                             |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| I~ouw2~ mean power (modulated) | dBm  | -46                             |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| F~uw1~ (offset)                | MHz  | 10                              | -10 |
|                                |      |                                 |     |
| (NOTE 2)                       |      |                                 |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| F~uw2~ (offset)                | MHz  | 20                              | -20 |
|                                |      |                                 |     |
| (NOTE 2)                       |      |                                 |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| UE transmitted mean power      | dBm  | 20 (for Power class 3 and 3bis) |     |
|                                |      |                                 |     |
|                                |      | 18 (for Power class 4)          |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+

NOTE 1: Iouw2 (modulated) consists of the common channels needed for
tests as specified in Table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data channels as
specified in Table E.3.6.

NOTE 2: Negative offsets refer to the assigned channel frequency of the
lowest carrier frequency used and positive offsets refer to the assigned
channel frequency of the highest carrier frequency used.

Table 6.7D.5: Intermodulation requirements, single band 4C-HSDPA, single
uplink operation

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| **Single    | **DL Band** | **H         | **Î~or\ ~** | **UL-DL     |
| band        |             | S-PDSCH\_Ec |             | carrier     |
| 4C-HSDPA    |             | (dBm        | **(dBm      | s           |
| Conf        |             | /3.84MHz)** | /3.84MHz)** | eparation** |
| iguration** |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| I-3         | I           | \<          | \<R         | Minimum     |
|             |             | REFSENS\>+3 | EFÎ~or~\>+3 |             |
|             |             | dB          | dB          |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

NOTE 3: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the
HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
Table 6.2C.1.

NOTE 4: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

6.7E Intermodulation Characteristics for single uplink dual band 4C-HSDPA
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 6.7E.1 Definition and applicability

Third and higher order mixing of the two interfering RF signals can
produce an interfering signal in the band of the desired channel.
Intermodulation response rejection is a measure of the capability of the
receiver to receive a wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency in
the presence of two or more interfering signals which have a specific
frequency relationship to the wanted signal.

The test parameters in Tables 6.7E.1 and 6.7E.4 apply for Release 10 and
later releases to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support dual
band 4C-HSDPA, single uplink operation and HSDPA UE capability
categories 31 or 32.

Dual band 4C-HSDPA is designed to operate in configurations specified in
clause 4.2.

### 6.7E.2 Minimum Requirements

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.7E.1 and 6.7E.2.

Table 6.7E.1: Test parameters for receive intermodulation
characteristics, dual band 4C-HSDPA, single uplink operation

+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| Parameter                      | Unit | Level                           |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| I~ouw1~ (CW)                   | dBm  | -46                             |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| I~ouw2~ mean power (modulated) | dBm  | -46                             |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| F~uw1~ (offset)                | MHz  | 10                              | -10 |
|                                |      |                                 |     |
| (NOTE 2)                       |      |                                 |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| F~uw2~ (offset)                | MHz  | 20                              | -20 |
|                                |      |                                 |     |
| (NOTE 2)                       |      |                                 |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| UE transmitted mean power      | dBm  | 20 (for Power class 3 and 3bis) |     |
|                                |      |                                 |     |
|                                |      | 18 (for Power class 4)          |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+

NOTE 1: Iouw2 (modulated) consists of the common channels needed for
tests as specified in Table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data channels as
specified in Table E.3.6.

NOTE 2: Negative offsets refer to the assigned channel frequency of the
lowest carrier frequency used and positive offsets refer to the assigned
channel frequency of the highest carrier frequency used.

Table 6.7E.2: Intermodulation requirements, dual band 4C-HSDPA, single
uplink operation

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **Dual   | **DL     | **UL     | **HS-P   | **Î~or~  | **UL-DL  |
| band     | Band**   | Band**   | DSCH\_Ec | (dBm/3.  | carrier  |
| 4C-HSDPA |          |          | (dBm/3.  | 84MHz)** | sepa     |
| Configu  |          |          | 84MHz)** |          | ration** |
| ration** |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-       | I        | I        | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
| 2-VIII-1 |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
| I-       |          |          |          |          |          |
| 3-VIII-1 |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | VIII     |          | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | I        | VIII     | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | VIII     |          | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I        | II       | II       | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
| I-1-IV-2 |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
| I        |          |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-IV-1 |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| I        |          |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-IV-2 |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | IV       |          | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | II       | IV       | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | IV       |          | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-1-V-2  | I        | I        | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
| I-2-V-1  |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-V-2  |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | V        |          | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | I        | V        | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | V        |          | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-1      | I        | I        | \<REF    | \<RE     | Minimum  |
| -XXXII-2 |          |          | SENS\>+3 | FÎor\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
| I-2      |          |          |          |          |          |
| -XXXII-1 |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | XXXII    |          | \<REF    | \<RE     | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | FÎor\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE:    |          |          |          |          |          |
| \<R      |          |          |          |          |          |
| EFSENS\> |          |          |          |          |          |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |
| \<RE     |          |          |          |          |          |
| FÎ~or~\> |          |          |          |          |          |
| refer to |          |          |          |          |          |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |
| HS-PDSC  |          |          |          |          |          |
| H\_Ec\<R |          |          |          |          |          |
| EFSENS\> |          |          |          |          |          |
| and the  |          |          |          |          |          |
| HS-P     |          |          |          |          |          |
| DSCH\<RE |          |          |          |          |          |
| FÎ~or~\> |          |          |          |          |          |
| as       |          |          |          |          |          |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |
| pecified |          |          |          |          |          |
| in Table |          |          |          |          |          |
| 6.2D.1   |          |          |          |          |          |
| for dual |          |          |          |          |          |
| band     |          |          |          |          |          |
| 4        |          |          |          |          |          |
| C-HSDPA. |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.7E.3 and Table 6.7E.4.

Table 6.7E.3: Test parameters for receive narrow-band intermodulation
characteristics, dual band 4C-HSDPA, single uplink operation

+--------------+------+--------------+-----------+-----+------+
| Parameter    | Unit | Band II, IV, | Band VIII |     |      |
|              |      | V            |           |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+-----------+-----+------+
| I~ouw1~ (CW) | dBm  | -44          | -43       |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+-----------+-----+------+
| I~ouw2~      | dBm  | -44          | -43       |     |      |
| (GMSK)       |      |              |           |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+-----------+-----+------+
| F~uw1~       | MHz  | 3.5          | -3.5      | 3.6 | -3.6 |
| (offset)     |      |              |           |     |      |
|              |      |              |           |     |      |
| (NOTE 2)     |      |              |           |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+-----------+-----+------+
| F~uw2~       | MHz  | 5.9          | -5.9      | 6.0 | -6.0 |
| (offset)     |      |              |           |     |      |
|              |      |              |           |     |      |
| (NOTE 2)     |      |              |           |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+-----------+-----+------+
| UE           | dBm  | 20 (for      |           |     |      |
| transmitted  |      | Power class  |           |     |      |
| mean power   |      | 3 and 3bis)  |           |     |      |
|              |      |              |           |     |      |
|              |      | 18 (for      |           |     |      |
|              |      | Power class  |           |     |      |
|              |      | 4)           |           |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+-----------+-----+------+

> NOTE 1: I~ouw2~ (GMSK) is an interfering signal as defined in TS
> 45.004.

NOTE 2: For dual band 4C-HSDPA, negative offset refers to the assigned
channel frequency of the lowest carrier frequency(ies) in each band, and
positive offset refers to the assigned channel frequency of the highest
carrier frequency(ies) in each band.

Table 6.7E.4: Narrow-band intermodulation requirements, dual band
4C-HSDPA, single uplink operation

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **Dual   | **DL     | **UL     | **HS-P   | **Î~or~  | **UL-DL  |
| band     | Band**   | Band**   | DSCH\_Ec | (dBm/3.  | carrier  |
| 4C-HSDPA |          |          | (dBm/3.  | 84MHz)** | sepa     |
| Configu  |          |          | 84MHz)** |          | ration** |
| ration** |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-       | VIII     | I        | \<REFSEN | \        | Minimum  |
| 2-VIII-1 |          |          | S\>+16.6 | <REFÎ~or |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | ~\>+16.6 |          |
| I-       |          |          |          | dB       |          |
| 3-VIII-1 |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | VIII     | VIII     | \<REFSEN | \        | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | S\>+16.6 | <REFÎ~or |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | ~\>+16.6 |          |
|          |          |          |          | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I        | II       | II       | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
| I-1-IV-2 |          |          | ENS\>+17 | or~\>+17 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
| I        |          |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-IV-1 |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| I        |          |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-IV-2 |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | IV       |          | \<REFSEN | \        | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | S\>+18.9 | <REFÎ~or |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | ~\>+18.9 |          |
|          |          |          |          | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | II       | IV       | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | ENS\>+17 | or~\>+17 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | IV       |          | \<REFSEN | \        | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | S\>+18.9 | <REFÎ~or |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | ~\>+18.9 |          |
|          |          |          |          | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-1-V-2  | V        | I        | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | ENS\>+17 | or~\>+17 |          |
| I-2-V-1  |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-V-2  |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | V        | V        | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | ENS\>+17 | or~\>+17 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

NOTE 3: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the
HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
Table 6.2D.1for dual band 4C-HSDPA.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.8.1D.1and clause 7.8.2D.1.

### 6.7E.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BLER of HS-PDSCH does not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in table 6.7E.6 through 6.7E.9 for the DL reference
channel H-Set 1C specified in Annex C.8.1.1.

The lack of the intermodulation response rejection ability decreases the
4C-HSDPA coverage area when two or more interfering signals, which have
a specific frequency relationship to the wanted signal, exist.

This test case tests only 4 carrier configurations.

### 6.7E.4 Method of test

##### 6.7E.4.1 Initial conditions {#e.4.1-initial-conditions-3 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.51.

2\) RF parameters are set up according to table 6.7E.6 and table 6.7E.8.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic 4C-HSDPA setup procedure
specified in TS 34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.16, with exceptions for
information elements listed in Table 6.7E.5. With this exception, the
Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to algorithm 2.

##### Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1) {#contents-of-radio-bearer-setup-message-am-or-um-test-loop-mode1-29 .H6}

Table 6.7E.5: Specific Message Contents for Intermodulation
Characteristics (Single Uplink Single band 4C\--HSDPA)

  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                       Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2         
  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 6.7E.4.2 Procedure {#e.4.2-procedure-3 .H6}

1\) Set the parameters of the CW generator and interference signal
generator as shown in table 6.7E.4 and in table 6.7E.5.

2\) Set the power level of UE according to the tables 6.7E.6, 6.7E.7,
6.7E.8 and table 6.7E.9 or send the power control commands (1dB step
size should be used.) to the UE until UE output power measured by Test
System shall be kept at the specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.

3\) Measure the BLER of HS-PDSCH received from the UE at the SS by
counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the UL HS-DPCCH (BLER =
(NACK + statDTX)/(NACK + statDTX + ACK)).

### 6.7E.5 Test requirements

The measured BLER, derived in step 3), shall not exceed 0.1 on each
individual cell. The minimum number of measurements required for a
statistically significant result to this test is clarified in annex
F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.0.

Table 6.7E.6: Test parameters for receive intermodulation
characteristics, dual band 4C-HSDPA, single uplink operation

+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| Parameter                      | Unit | Level                           |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| I~ouw1~ (CW)                   | dBm  | -46                             |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| I~ouw2~ mean power (modulated) | dBm  | -46                             |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| F~uw1~ (offset)                | MHz  | 10                              | -10 |
|                                |      |                                 |     |
| (NOTE 2)                       |      |                                 |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| F~uw2~ (offset)                | MHz  | 20                              | -20 |
|                                |      |                                 |     |
| (NOTE 2)                       |      |                                 |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| UE transmitted mean power      | dBm  | 20 (for Power class 3 and 3bis) |     |
|                                |      |                                 |     |
|                                |      | 18 (for Power class 4)          |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+

NOTE 1: Iouw2 (modulated) consists of the common channels needed for
tests as specified in Table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data channels as
specified in Table E.3.6.

NOTE 2: Negative offsets refer to the assigned channel frequency of the
lowest carrier frequency used and positive offsets refer to the assigned
channel frequency of the highest carrier frequency used.

Table 6.7E.7: Intermodulation requirements, dual band 4C-HSDPA, single
uplink operation

  -------------------------------------- ------------- ------------- -------------------------------- ------------------------- ------------------------------
  **Dual band 4C-HSDPA Configuration**   **DL Band**   **UL Band**   **HS-PDSCH\_Ec (dBm/3.84MHz)**   **Î~or~ (dBm/3.84MHz)**   **UL-DL carrier separation**
  I-3-VIII-1                             I             I             \<REFSENS\>+3 dB                 \<REFÎ~or~\>+3 dB         Minimum
                                         VIII                        \<REFSENS\>+3 dB                 \<REFÎ~or~\>+3 dB         Minimum
                                         I             VIII          \<REFSENS\>+3 dB                 \<REFÎ~or~\>+3 dB         Minimum
                                         VIII                        \<REFSENS\>+3 dB                 \<REFÎ~or~\>+3 dB         Minimum
  II-2-IV-2                              II            II            \<REFSENS\>+3 dB                 \<REFÎ~or~\>+3 dB         Minimum
                                         IV                          \<REFSENS\>+3 dB                 \<REFÎ~or~\>+3 dB         Minimum
                                         II            IV            \<REFSENS\>+3 dB                 \<REFÎ~or~\>+3 dB         Minimum
                                         IV                          \<REFSENS\>+3 dB                 \<REFÎ~or~\>+3 dB         Minimum
  I-2-V-2                                I             I             \<REFSENS\>+3 dB                 \<REFÎ~or~\>+3 dB         Minimum
                                         V                           \<REFSENS\>+3 dB                 \<REFÎ~or~\>+3 dB         Minimum
                                         I             V             \<REFSENS\>+3 dB                 \<REFÎ~or~\>+3 dB         Minimum
                                         V                           \<REFSENS\>+3 dB                 \<REFÎ~or~\>+3 dB         Minimum
  -------------------------------------- ------------- ------------- -------------------------------- ------------------------- ------------------------------

Table 6.7E.8: Test parameters for receive narrow-band intermodulation
characteristics, dual band 4C-HSDPA, single uplink operation

+--------------+------+--------------+-----------+-----+------+
| Parameter    | Unit | Band II, IV, | Band VIII |     |      |
|              |      | V            |           |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+-----------+-----+------+
| I~ouw1~ (CW) | dBm  | -44          | -43       |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+-----------+-----+------+
| I~ouw2~      | dBm  | -44          | -43       |     |      |
| (GMSK)       |      |              |           |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+-----------+-----+------+
| F~uw1~       | MHz  | 3.5          | -3.5      | 3.6 | -3.6 |
| (offset)     |      |              |           |     |      |
|              |      |              |           |     |      |
| (NOTE 2)     |      |              |           |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+-----------+-----+------+
| F~uw2~       | MHz  | 5.9          | -5.9      | 6.0 | -6.0 |
| (offset)     |      |              |           |     |      |
|              |      |              |           |     |      |
| (NOTE 2)     |      |              |           |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+-----------+-----+------+
| UE           | dBm  | 20 (for      |           |     |      |
| transmitted  |      | Power class  |           |     |      |
| mean power   |      | 3 and 3bis)  |           |     |      |
|              |      |              |           |     |      |
|              |      | 18 (for      |           |     |      |
|              |      | Power class  |           |     |      |
|              |      | 4)           |           |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+-----------+-----+------+

> NOTE 1: I~ouw2~ (GMSK) is an interfering signal as defined in TS
> 45.004.

NOTE 2: For dual band 4C-HSDPA, negative offset refers to the assigned
channel frequency of the lowest carrier frequency(ies) in each band, and
positive offset refers to the assigned channel frequency of the highest
carrier frequency(ies) in each band.

Table 6.7E.8: Narrow-band intermodulation requirements, dual band
4C-HSDPA, single uplink operation

  -------------------------------------- ------------- ------------- -------------------------------- ------------------------- ------------------------------
  **Dual band 4C-HSDPA Configuration**   **DL Band**   **UL Band**   **HS-PDSCH\_Ec (dBm/3.84MHz)**   **Î~or~ (dBm/3.84MHz)**   **UL-DL carrier separation**
  I-3-VIII-1                             VIII          I             \<REFSENS\>+16.6 dB              \<REFÎ~or~\>+16.6 dB      Minimum
                                         VIII          VIII          \<REFSENS\>+16.6 dB              \<REFÎ~or~\>+16.6 dB      Minimum
  II-2-IV-2                              II            II            \<REFSENS\>+17 dB                \<REFÎ~or~\>+17 dB        Minimum
                                         IV                          \<REFSENS\>+18.9 dB              \<REFÎ~or~\>+18.9 dB      Minimum
                                         II            IV            \<REFSENS\>+17 dB                \<REFÎ~or~\>+17 dB        Minimum
                                         IV                          \<REFSENS\>+18.9 dB              \<REFÎ~or~\>+18.9 dB      Minimum
  I-2-V-2                                V             I             \<REFSENS\>+17 dB                \<REFÎ~or~\>+17 dB        Minimum
                                         V             V             \<REFSENS\>+17 dB                \<REFÎ~or~\>+17 dB        Minimum
  -------------------------------------- ------------- ------------- -------------------------------- ------------------------- ------------------------------

NOTE 3: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the
HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
Table 6.2D.1for dual band 4C-HSDPA.

NOTE 4: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

6.7EA Intermodulation Characteristics for single uplink dual band 4C-HSDPA (3 carrier)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 6.7EA.1 Definition and applicability

Third and higher order mixing of the two interfering RF signals can
produce an interfering signal in the band of the desired channel.
Intermodulation response rejection is a measure of the capability of the
receiver to receive a wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency in
the presence of two or more interfering signals which have a specific
frequency relationship to the wanted signal.

The test parameters in Tables 6.7EA.1 and 6.7EA.4 apply for Release 10
and later releases to all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support dual
band 4C-HSDPA, single uplink operation and HS-DSCH categories 29 to 32.

Dual band 4C-HSDPA is designed to operate in configurations specified in
clause 4.2.

### 6.7EA.2 Minimum Requirements

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.7EA.1 and 6.7EA.2.

Table 6.7EA.1: Test parameters for receive intermodulation
characteristics, dual band 4C-HSDPA, single uplink operation

+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| Parameter                      | Unit | Level                           |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| I~ouw1~ (CW)                   | dBm  | -46                             |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| I~ouw2~ mean power (modulated) | dBm  | -46                             |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| F~uw1~ (offset)                | MHz  | 10                              | -10 |
|                                |      |                                 |     |
| (NOTE 2)                       |      |                                 |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| F~uw2~ (offset)                | MHz  | 20                              | -20 |
|                                |      |                                 |     |
| (NOTE 2)                       |      |                                 |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| UE transmitted mean power      | dBm  | 20 (for Power class 3 and 3bis) |     |
|                                |      |                                 |     |
|                                |      | 18 (for Power class 4)          |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+

NOTE 1: Iouw2 (modulated) consists of the common channels needed for
tests as specified in Table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data channels as
specified in Table E.3.6.

NOTE 2: Negative offsets refer to the assigned channel frequency of the
lowest carrier frequency used and positive offsets refer to the assigned
channel frequency of the highest carrier frequency used.

Table 6.7EA.2: Intermodulation requirements, dual band 4C-HSDPA, single
uplink operation

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **Dual   | **DL     | **UL     | **HS-P   | **Î~or~  | **UL-DL  |
| band     | Band**   | Band**   | DSCH\_Ec | (dBm/3.  | carrier  |
| 4C-HSDPA |          |          | (dBm/3.  | 84MHz)** | sepa     |
| Configu  |          |          | 84MHz)** |          | ration** |
| ration** |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-       | I        | I        | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
| 2-VIII-1 |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
| I-       |          |          |          |          |          |
| 3-VIII-1 |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | VIII     |          | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | I        | VIII     | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | VIII     |          | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I        | II       | II       | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
| I-1-IV-2 |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
| I        |          |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-IV-1 |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| I        |          |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-IV-2 |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | IV       |          | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | II       | IV       | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | IV       |          | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-1-V-2  | I        | I        | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
| I-2-V-1  |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-V-2  |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | V        |          | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | I        | V        | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | V        |          | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-1      | I        | I        | \<REF    | \<RE     | Minimum  |
| -XXXII-2 |          |          | SENS\>+3 | FÎor\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
| I-2      |          |          |          |          |          |
| -XXXII-1 |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | XXXII    |          | \<REF    | \<RE     | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | FÎor\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE:    |          |          |          |          |          |
| \<R      |          |          |          |          |          |
| EFSENS\> |          |          |          |          |          |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |
| \<RE     |          |          |          |          |          |
| FÎ~or~\> |          |          |          |          |          |
| refer to |          |          |          |          |          |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |
| HS-PDSC  |          |          |          |          |          |
| H\_Ec\<R |          |          |          |          |          |
| EFSENS\> |          |          |          |          |          |
| and the  |          |          |          |          |          |
| HS-P     |          |          |          |          |          |
| DSCH\<RE |          |          |          |          |          |
| FÎ~or~\> |          |          |          |          |          |
| as       |          |          |          |          |          |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |
| pecified |          |          |          |          |          |
| in Table |          |          |          |          |          |
| 6.2DA.1  |          |          |          |          |          |
| for dual |          |          |          |          |          |
| band     |          |          |          |          |          |
| 4        |          |          |          |          |          |
| C-HSDPA. |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

The BLER measured on each individual cell shall not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in Table 6.7EA.3 and Table 6.7EA.4.

Table 6.7EA.3: Test parameters for receive narrow-band intermodulation
characteristics, dual band 4C-HSDPA, single uplink operation

+--------------+------+--------------+-----------+-----+------+
| Parameter    | Unit | Band II, IV, | Band VIII |     |      |
|              |      | V            |           |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+-----------+-----+------+
| I~ouw1~ (CW) | dBm  | -44          | -43       |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+-----------+-----+------+
| I~ouw2~      | dBm  | -44          | -43       |     |      |
| (GMSK)       |      |              |           |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+-----------+-----+------+
| F~uw1~       | MHz  | 3.5          | -3.5      | 3.6 | -3.6 |
| (offset)     |      |              |           |     |      |
|              |      |              |           |     |      |
| (NOTE 2)     |      |              |           |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+-----------+-----+------+
| F~uw2~       | MHz  | 5.9          | -5.9      | 6.0 | -6.0 |
| (offset)     |      |              |           |     |      |
|              |      |              |           |     |      |
| (NOTE 2)     |      |              |           |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+-----------+-----+------+
| UE           | dBm  | 20 (for      |           |     |      |
| transmitted  |      | Power class  |           |     |      |
| mean power   |      | 3 and 3bis)  |           |     |      |
|              |      |              |           |     |      |
|              |      | 18 (for      |           |     |      |
|              |      | Power class  |           |     |      |
|              |      | 4)           |           |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+-----------+-----+------+

> NOTE 1: I~ouw2~ (GMSK) is an interfering signal as defined in TS
> 45.004.

NOTE 2: For dual band 4C-HSDPA, negative offset refers to the assigned
channel frequency of the lowest carrier frequency(ies) in each band, and
positive offset refers to the assigned channel frequency of the highest
carrier frequency(ies) in each band.

Table 6.7EA.4: Narrow-band intermodulation requirements, dual band
4C-HSDPA, single uplink operation

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **Dual   | **DL     | **UL     | **HS-P   | **Î~or~  | **UL-DL  |
| band     | Band**   | Band**   | DSCH\_Ec | (dBm/3.  | carrier  |
| 4C-HSDPA |          |          | (dBm/3.  | 84MHz)** | sepa     |
| Configu  |          |          | 84MHz)** |          | ration** |
| ration** |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-       | VIII     | I        | \<REFSEN | \        | Minimum  |
| 2-VIII-1 |          |          | S\>+16.6 | <REFÎ~or |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | ~\>+16.6 |          |
| I-       |          |          |          | dB       |          |
| 3-VIII-1 |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | VIII     | VIII     | \<REFSEN | \        | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | S\>+16.6 | <REFÎ~or |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | ~\>+16.6 |          |
|          |          |          |          | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I        | II       | II       | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
| I-1-IV-2 |          |          | ENS\>+17 | or~\>+17 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
| I        |          |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-IV-1 |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| I        |          |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-IV-2 |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | IV       |          | \<REFSEN | \        | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | S\>+18.9 | <REFÎ~or |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | ~\>+18.9 |          |
|          |          |          |          | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | II       | IV       | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | ENS\>+17 | or~\>+17 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | IV       |          | \<REFSEN | \        | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | S\>+18.9 | <REFÎ~or |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | ~\>+18.9 |          |
|          |          |          |          | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-1-V-2  | V        | I        | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | ENS\>+17 | or~\>+17 |          |
| I-2-V-1  |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-V-2  |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | V        | V        | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | ENS\>+17 | or~\>+17 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

NOTE 3: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the
HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
Table 6.2DA.1for dual band 4C-HSDPA.

The normative reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause
7.8.1D.1and clause 7.8.2D.1.

### 6.7EA.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE BLER of HS-PDSCH does not exceed 0.1 for the
parameters specified in table 6.7EA.6 through 6.7EA.9 for the DL
reference channel H-Set 1B specified in Annex C.8.1.1.

The lack of the intermodulation response rejection ability decreases the
4C-HSDPA coverage area when two or more interfering signals, which have
a specific frequency relationship to the wanted signal, exist.

This test case tests only 4 carrier configurations.

### 6.7EA.4 Method of test

##### 6.7EA.4.1 Initial conditions {#ea.4.1-initial-conditions-1 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS to the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.51.

2\) RF parameters are set up according to table 6.7EA.6 and table
6.7EA.8.

3\) A call is set up according to the Generic 4C-HSDPA setup procedure
specified in TS 34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.16, with exceptions for
information elements listed in Table 6.7EA.5. With this exception, the
Power Control Algorithm for the Uplink is set to algorithm 2.

Contents of RADIO BEARER SETUP message: AM or UM (Test Loop Mode1)

Table 6.7EA.5: Specific Message Contents for Intermodulation
Characteristics (Single Uplink Single band 4C\--HSDPA)

  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------
  Information Element                 **Value/Remark**   Version
  Uplink DPCH info                                       Rel-6
  \- Uplink DPCH power control info                      
  \- CHOICE mode                      FDD                
  \- Power Control Algorithm          Algorithm2         
  ----------------------------------- ------------------ ---------

See TS 34.108 \[3\] and TS 34.109 \[4\] for details regarding generic
call setup procedure and loopback test.

##### 6.7EA.4.2 Procedure {#ea.4.2-procedure-1 .H6}

1\) Set the parameters of the CW generator and interference signal
generator as shown in table 6.7EA.4 and in table 6.7EA.5.

2\) Set the power level of UE according to the tables 6.7EA.6, 6.7EA.7,
6.7EA.8 and table 6.7EA.9 or send the power control commands (1dB step
size should be used.) to the UE until UE output power measured by Test
System shall be kept at the specified power level with ±1dB tolerance.

3\) Measure the BLER of HS-PDSCH received from the UE at the SS by
counting the number of NACK, ACK and statDTX on the UL HS-DPCCH (BLER =
(NACK + statDTX)/(NACK + statDTX + ACK)).

### 6.7EA.5 Test requirements

The measured BLER, derived in step 3), shall not exceed 0.1 on each
individual cell. The minimum number of measurements required for a
statistically significant result to this test is clarified in annex
F.6.3, Table F.6.3.5.0.

Table 6.7EA.6: Test parameters for receive intermodulation
characteristics, dual band 4C-HSDPA, single uplink operation

+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| Parameter                      | Unit | Level                           |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| I~ouw1~ (CW)                   | dBm  | -46                             |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| I~ouw2~ mean power (modulated) | dBm  | -46                             |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| F~uw1~ (offset)                | MHz  | 10                              | -10 |
|                                |      |                                 |     |
| (NOTE 2)                       |      |                                 |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| F~uw2~ (offset)                | MHz  | 20                              | -20 |
|                                |      |                                 |     |
| (NOTE 2)                       |      |                                 |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+
| UE transmitted mean power      | dBm  | 20 (for Power class 3 and 3bis) |     |
|                                |      |                                 |     |
|                                |      | 18 (for Power class 4)          |     |
+--------------------------------+------+---------------------------------+-----+

NOTE 1: Iouw2 (modulated) consists of the common channels needed for
tests as specified in Table E.4.1 and 16 dedicated data channels as
specified in Table E.3.6.

NOTE 2: Negative offsets refer to the assigned channel frequency of the
lowest carrier frequency used and positive offsets refer to the assigned
channel frequency of the highest carrier frequency used.

Table 6.7EA.7: Intermodulation requirements, dual band 4C-HSDPA, single
uplink operation

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **Dual   | **DL     | **UL     | **HS-P   | **Î~or~  | **UL-DL  |
| band     | Band**   | Band**   | DSCH\_Ec | (dBm/3.  | carrier  |
| 4C-HSDPA |          |          | (dBm/3.  | 84MHz)** | sepa     |
| Configu  |          |          | 84MHz)** |          | ration** |
| ration** |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-       | I        | I        | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
| 2-VIII-1 |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | VIII     |          | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | I        | VIII     | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | VIII     |          | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I        | II       | II       | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
| I-1-IV-2 |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
| I        |          |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-IV-1 |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | IV       |          | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | II       | IV       | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | IV       |          | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-1-V-2  | I        | I        | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
| I-2-V-1  |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | V        |          | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | I        | V        | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | V        |          | \<REF    | \<REFÎ   | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | ~or~\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-1      | I        | I        | \<REF    | \<RE     | Minimum  |
| -XXXII-2 |          |          | SENS\>+3 | FÎor\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
| I-2      |          |          |          |          |          |
| -XXXII-1 |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | XXXII    |          | \<REF    | \<RE     | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | SENS\>+3 | FÎor\>+3 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| NOTE:    |          |          |          |          |          |
| \<R      |          |          |          |          |          |
| EFSENS\> |          |          |          |          |          |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |
| \<RE     |          |          |          |          |          |
| FÎ~or~\> |          |          |          |          |          |
| refer to |          |          |          |          |          |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |
| HS-PDSC  |          |          |          |          |          |
| H\_Ec\<R |          |          |          |          |          |
| EFSENS\> |          |          |          |          |          |
| and the  |          |          |          |          |          |
| HS-P     |          |          |          |          |          |
| DSCH\<RE |          |          |          |          |          |
| FÎ~or~\> |          |          |          |          |          |
| as       |          |          |          |          |          |
| s        |          |          |          |          |          |
| pecified |          |          |          |          |          |
| in Table |          |          |          |          |          |
| 6.2D.1   |          |          |          |          |          |
| for dual |          |          |          |          |          |
| band     |          |          |          |          |          |
| 4        |          |          |          |          |          |
| C-HSDPA. |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

Table 6.7EA.8: Test parameters for receive narrow-band intermodulation
characteristics, dual band 4C-HSDPA, single uplink operation

+--------------+------+--------------+-----------+-----+------+
| Parameter    | Unit | Band II, IV, | Band VIII |     |      |
|              |      | V            |           |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+-----------+-----+------+
| I~ouw1~ (CW) | dBm  | -44          | -43       |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+-----------+-----+------+
| I~ouw2~      | dBm  | -44          | -43       |     |      |
| (GMSK)       |      |              |           |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+-----------+-----+------+
| F~uw1~       | MHz  | 3.5          | -3.5      | 3.6 | -3.6 |
| (offset)     |      |              |           |     |      |
|              |      |              |           |     |      |
| (NOTE 2)     |      |              |           |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+-----------+-----+------+
| F~uw2~       | MHz  | 5.9          | -5.9      | 6.0 | -6.0 |
| (offset)     |      |              |           |     |      |
|              |      |              |           |     |      |
| (NOTE 2)     |      |              |           |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+-----------+-----+------+
| UE           | dBm  | 20 (for      |           |     |      |
| transmitted  |      | Power class  |           |     |      |
| mean power   |      | 3 and 3bis)  |           |     |      |
|              |      |              |           |     |      |
|              |      | 18 (for      |           |     |      |
|              |      | Power class  |           |     |      |
|              |      | 4)           |           |     |      |
+--------------+------+--------------+-----------+-----+------+

> NOTE 1: I~ouw2~ (GMSK) is an interfering signal as defined in TS
> 45.004.

NOTE 2: For dual band 4C-HSDPA, negative offset refers to the assigned
channel frequency of the lowest carrier frequency(ies) in each band, and
positive offset refers to the assigned channel frequency of the highest
carrier frequency(ies) in each band.

Table 6.7EA.8: Narrow-band intermodulation requirements, dual band
4C-HSDPA, single uplink operation

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **Dual   | **DL     | **UL     | **HS-P   | **Î~or~  | **UL-DL  |
| band     | Band**   | Band**   | DSCH\_Ec | (dBm/3.  | carrier  |
| 4C-HSDPA |          |          | (dBm/3.  | 84MHz)** | sepa     |
| Configu  |          |          | 84MHz)** |          | ration** |
| ration** |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-       | VIII     | I        | \<REFSEN | \        | Minimum  |
| 2-VIII-1 |          |          | S\>+16.6 | <REFÎ~or |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | ~\>+16.6 |          |
|          |          |          |          | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | VIII     | VIII     | \<REFSEN | \        | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | S\>+16.6 | <REFÎ~or |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | ~\>+16.6 |          |
|          |          |          |          | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I        | II       | II       | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
| I-1-IV-2 |          |          | ENS\>+17 | or~\>+17 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
| I        |          |          |          |          |          |
| I-2-IV-1 |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | IV       |          | \<REFSEN | \        | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | S\>+18.9 | <REFÎ~or |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | ~\>+18.9 |          |
|          |          |          |          | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | II       | IV       | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | ENS\>+17 | or~\>+17 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | IV       |          | \<REFSEN | \        | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | S\>+18.9 | <REFÎ~or |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | ~\>+18.9 |          |
|          |          |          |          | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| I-1-V-2  | V        | I        | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | ENS\>+17 | or~\>+17 |          |
| I-2-V-1  |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | V        | V        | \<REFS   | \<REFÎ~  | Minimum  |
|          |          |          | ENS\>+17 | or~\>+17 |          |
|          |          |          | dB       | dB       |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

NOTE 3: \<REFSENS\> and \<REFÎ~or~\> refers to the
HS-PDSCH\_Ec\<REFSENS\> and the HS-PDSCH\<REFÎ~or~\> as specified in
Table 6.2DA.1for dual band 4C-HSDPA.

NOTE 4: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

6.8 Spurious Emissions
----------------------

Editor's note: For a transition period of two meeting cycles until
RAN\#70, the test requirements in version 11.6.0 of this specification
is allowed to be used for this test.

### 6.8.1 Definition and applicability

The spurious emissions power is the power of emissions generated or
amplified in a receiver that appear at the UE antenna connector. The
spurious emission is verified per antenna connector with the other(s)
terminated.

The requirements and this test apply to all types of UTRA for the FDD
UE.

### 6.8.2 Minimum Requirements

The power of any narrow band CW spurious emission shall not exceed the
maximum level specified in table 6.8.1, table 6.8.2 and 5.11.1b.

Table 6.8.1: General receiver spurious emission requirements

+----------------------------+-------------+---------------+--------+
| Frequency Band             | Measurement | Maximum level | Note   |
|                            |             |               |        |
|                            | Bandwidth   |               |        |
+----------------------------+-------------+---------------+--------+
| 30 MHz ≤ f \< 1 GHz        | 100 kHz     | -57 dBm       |        |
+----------------------------+-------------+---------------+--------+
| 1 GHz ≤ f ≤ 12,75 GHz      | 1 MHz       | -47 dBm       |        |
+----------------------------+-------------+---------------+--------+
| 12.75GHz ≤ f ≤ 5^th^       | 1 MHz       | -47 dBm       | Note 1 |
| harmonic of the upper      |             |               |        |
| frequency edge of the DL   |             |               |        |
| operating band in GHz      |             |               |        |
+----------------------------+-------------+---------------+--------+
| NOTE 1: Applies only for   |             |               |        |
| Band XXII.                 |             |               |        |
+----------------------------+-------------+---------------+--------+

Table 6.8.2: Additional receiver spurious emission requirements

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------- ---------------------- --------------- --------------------------------------------------------
  Band                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Frequency Band                MeasurementBandwidth   Maximum level   Note
  I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1920 MHz ≤ f ≤ 1980 MHz       3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  II                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1850 MHz ≤ f ≤ 1915 MHz       3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  III                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1710 MHz ≤ f ≤ 1785 MHz       3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  IV                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1710 MHz ≤ f \< 1755 MHz      3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  V                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             824 MHz ≤ f ≤ 849 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  VI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            815 MHz ≤ f ≤ 830 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                830 MHz ≤ f ≤ 840 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                840 MHz ≤ f ≤ 845 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                860 MHz ≤ f ≤ 875 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE receive band
  VII                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2500 MHz ≤ f ≤ 2570 MHz       3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  VIII                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          880 MHz ≤ f ≤ 915 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  IX                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1749.9 MHz ≤ f ≤ 1784.9 MHz   3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  X                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1710 MHz ≤ f \< 1770 MHz      3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  XI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1427.9 MHz ≤ f ≤ 1447.9 MHz   3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  XII                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           699 MHz ≤ f ≤ 716 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  XIII                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          746 MHz ≤ f ≤ 756 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE receive band
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                776 MHz ≤ f ≤ 788 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  XIV                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           788 MHz ≤ f ≤ 798 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  XIX                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           815 MHz ≤ f ≤ 830 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                830 MHz ≤ f ≤ 845 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                860 MHz ≤ f ≤ 875 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         
  XX                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            832 MHz ≤ f ≤ 862 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  XXI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1447.9 MHz ≤ f ≤ 1462.9 MHz   3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  XXII                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3410 MHz ≤ f ≤ 3490 MHz       3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  XXV                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1850 MHz ≤ f ≤ 1915 MHz       3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  XXVI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          814 MHz ≤ f ≤ 849 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  Note \*: The measurements are made on frequencies which are integer multiples of 200 kHz. As exceptions, up to five measurements with a level up to the applicable requirements defined in Table 7.10 are permitted for each UARFCN used in the measurement                                                                        
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------- ---------------------- --------------- --------------------------------------------------------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 7.9.1.

### 6.8.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE spurious emission meets the specifications
described in clause 6.8.5.

Excess spurious emissions increase the interference to other systems.

### 6.8.4 Method of test

##### 6.8.4.1 Initial conditions {#initial-conditions-26 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

1\) Connect a spectrum analyzer (or other suitable test equipment) to
the UE antenna connector as shown in figure A.8.

2\) RF parameters are setup according to table E.3.2.2. Settings for the
serving cell are defined in table 6.8.2A.

3\) A call is set up according to the setup procedure specified in
TS34.108 \[3\] sub clause 7.3.5, with the following exceptions for
information elements in System Information Block type3.

  ----------------------------------------- -----------------------------------
  SIB 3 Information Element                 **Value/Remark**
  \- Cell selection and re-selection info   
  \- CHOICE mode                            FDD
  \- Sintrasearch                           0 dB
  \- Sintersearch                           0 dB
  \- RAT List                               This parameter is not present
  \- Maximum allowed UL TX power            Power level where Pcompensation=0
  ----------------------------------------- -----------------------------------

The exceptions for SIB1 are defined in TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.5.2.

NOTE: The setup procedure (3) sets the UE into the CELL\_FACH state.
With this state and the SS level (2) it is ensured that UE continuously
monitors the S-CCPCH and no cell reselections are performed \[see 3GPP
TS 25.304, clauses 5.2.3.and 5.2.6\]. The UE will not be transmitting,
and therefore will not interfere with the measurement.

Table 6.8.2A: Settings for the serving cell during the measurement of Rx
Spurious Emissions

+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Parameter                | Unit         | Cell 1                   |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Cell type                |              | Serving cell             |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UTRA RF Channel Number   |              | As defined in clause     |
|                          |              | 6.8.4.1                  |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qqualmin                 | dB           | -24                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| Qrxlevmin                | dBm          | -115                     |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_RACH     | dBm          | +21                      |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| CPICH Ec (see notes 1    | dBm/3.84 MHz | As defined in table      |
| and 2)                   |              | E.3.2.2                  |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
| NOTE 1: The power level  |              |                          |
| is specified in terms of |              |                          |
| CPICH\_Ec instead of     |              |                          |
| CPICH\_RSCP as RSCP is a |              |                          |
| receiver measurement and |              |                          |
| only CPICH\_Ec can be    |              |                          |
| directly controlled by   |              |                          |
| the SS.                  |              |                          |
|                          |              |                          |
| NOTE 2: The cell fulfils |              |                          |
| TS 25.304, 5.2.3.1.2.    |              |                          |
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+

##### 6.8.4.2 Procedure {#procedure-26 .H6}

1\) Sweep the spectrum analyzer (or equivalent equipment) over a
frequency range and measure the average power of spurious emission.

### 6.8.5 Test requirements

It shall be verified that the RRC connection release at the end of the
procedure described in 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.5.3 shall be completed
successfully indicating that the UE has stayed in CELL\_FACH state
during the measurement of the spurious emissions.

The measured spurious emissions, derived in step 1), shall not exceed
the maximum level specified in table 6.8.3 and table 6.8.4.

Table 6.8.3: General receiver spurious emission requirements

+----------------------------+-------------+---------------+--------+
| Frequency Band             | Measurement | Maximum level | Note   |
|                            |             |               |        |
|                            | Bandwidth   |               |        |
+----------------------------+-------------+---------------+--------+
| 30 MHz ≤ f \< 1 GHz        | 100 kHz     | -57 dBm       |        |
+----------------------------+-------------+---------------+--------+
| 1 GHz ≤ f ≤ 12,75 GHz      | 1 MHz       | -47 dBm       |        |
+----------------------------+-------------+---------------+--------+
| 12.75GHz ≤ f ≤ 5th         | 1 MHz       | -47 dBm       | Note 1 |
| harmonic of the upper      |             |               |        |
| frequency edge of the DL   |             |               |        |
| operating band in GHz      |             |               |        |
+----------------------------+-------------+---------------+--------+
| NOTE 1: Applies only for   |             |               |        |
| Band XXII.                 |             |               |        |
+----------------------------+-------------+---------------+--------+

Table 6.8.4: Additional receiver spurious emission requirements

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------- ---------------------- --------------- --------------------------------------------------------
  Band                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Frequency Band                MeasurementBandwidth   Maximum level   Note
  I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1920 MHz ≤ f ≤ 1980 MHz       3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2110 MHz ≤ f ≤ 2170 MHz       3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE receive band
  II                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1850 MHz ≤ f ≤ 1915 MHz       3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  III                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1710 MHz ≤ f ≤ 1785 MHz       3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  IV                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1710 MHz ≤ f \< 1755 MHz      3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  V                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             824 MHz ≤ f ≤ 849 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  VI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            815 MHz ≤ f ≤ 830 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                830 MHz ≤ f ≤ 840 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                840 MHz ≤ f ≤ 845 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                860 MHz ≤ f ≤ 875 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                875 MHz ≤ f ≤ 885 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE receive band
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                885 MHz ≤ f ≤ 890 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         
  VII                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2500 MHz ≤ f ≤ 2570 MHz       3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  VIII                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          880 MHz ≤ f ≤ 915 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                935 MHz \< f ≤ 960 MHz        3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE receive band
  IX                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1749.9 MHz ≤ f ≤ 1784.9 MHz   3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  X                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1710 MHz ≤ f \< 1770 MHz      3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  XI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1427.9 MHz ≤ f ≤ 1447.9 MHz   3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1475.9 MHz ≤ f ≤ 1495.9 MHz   3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE receive band
  XII                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           699 MHz ≤ f ≤ 716 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  XIII                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          746 MHz ≤ f ≤ 756 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE receive band
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                776 MHz ≤ f ≤ 788 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  XIV                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           788 MHz ≤ f ≤ 798 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  XIX                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           815 MHz ≤ f ≤ 830 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                830 MHz ≤ f ≤ 845 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                860 MHz ≤ f ≤ 875 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                875 MHz ≤ f ≤ 890 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE receive band
  XX                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            832 MHz ≤ f ≤ 862 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  XXI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1447.9 MHz ≤ f ≤ 1462.9 MHz   3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  XXII                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3410 MHz ≤ f ≤ 3490 MHz       3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  XXV                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1850 MHz ≤ f ≤ 1915 MHz       3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  XXVI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          814 MHz ≤ f ≤ 849 MHz         3.84 MHz               -60 dBm         UE transmit band in URA\_PCH, Cell\_PCH and idle state
  Note \*: The measurements are made on frequencies which are integer multiples of 200 kHz. As exceptions, up to five measurements with a level up to the applicable requirements defined in Table 7.10 are permitted for each UARFCN used in the measurement                                                                        
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------- ---------------------- --------------- --------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 1: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

NOTE 2: The Test Requirements are measured in the CELL\_FACH state
instead of in the UE states defined in the Minimum Requirement because
the CELL\_FACH state ensures that the UE receiver is continuously on and
the UE transmitter is off whilst the spectrum analyser searches for
spurious emissions. The UE states defined in the Minimum Requirement
allow the UE receiver to be in discontinuous reception, and using those
UE states during the measurement would have resulted in a complicated
and significantly lengthened test procedure since the UE receiver would
be allowed to be switched off part of the time.

6.8A Spurious Emissions for DB-DC-HSDPA
---------------------------------------

Editor's note: This clause is incomplete. The following aspects are
either missing or not yet determined:

-   Test procedure is TBD.

### 6.8A.1 Definition and applicability

The spurious emissions power is the power of emissions generated or
amplified in a receiver that appear at the UE antenna connector. The
spurious emission is verified per antenna connector with the other(s)
terminated.

The requirements and this test apply for Release 9 and later releases to
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support DB-DC-HSDPA with a DL-only
band (DB-DC-HSDPA Configuration 6).

### 6.8A.2 Minimum Requirements

For DB-DC-HSDPA and Dual band 4C-HSDPA configurations including an
operating band without UL Band, the power of any narrow band CW spurious
emission shall not exceed the maximum level specified in Table 6.8A.1.

Table 6.8A.1: General receiver spurious emission requirements

+------------------------------+-------------+---------------+------+
| Frequency Band               | Measurement | Maximum level | Note |
|                              |             |               |      |
|                              | Bandwidth   |               |      |
+------------------------------+-------------+---------------+------+
| 30MHz ≤ f \< 1GHz            | 100 kHz     | -57 dBm       |      |
+------------------------------+-------------+---------------+------+
| 1GHz ≤ f ≤ 12.75 GHz         | 1 MHz       | -47 dBm       |      |
+------------------------------+-------------+---------------+------+
| NOTE 1: The requirements     |             |               |      |
| apply when the UE is         |             |               |      |
| configured for DL            |             |               |      |
| multicarrier operation but   |             |               |      |
| is not transmitting.         |             |               |      |
+------------------------------+-------------+---------------+------+

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 7.9.1A.

### 6.8A.3 Test purpose

To verify that the UE spurious emission meets the specifications
described in clause 6.8A.5.

Excess spurious emissions increase the interference to other systems.

### 6.8A.4 Method of test

##### 6.8A.4.1 Initial conditions {#a.4.1-initial-conditions-20 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: low range, mid range, high range; see clause
G.2.4.

##### 6.8A.4.2 Procedure {#a.4.2-procedure-20 .H6}

TBD

### 6.8A.5 Test requirements

The measured spurious emissions, derived in step TBD, shall not exceed
the maximum level specified in table 6.8A.2

Table 6.8A.2: General receiver spurious emission requirements

+------------------------------+-------------+---------------+------+
| Frequency Band               | Measurement | Maximum level | Note |
|                              |             |               |      |
|                              | Bandwidth   |               |      |
+------------------------------+-------------+---------------+------+
| 30MHz ≤ f \< 1GHz            | 100 kHz     | -57 dBm       |      |
+------------------------------+-------------+---------------+------+
| 1GHz ≤ f ≤ 12.75 GHz         | 1 MHz       | -47 dBm       |      |
+------------------------------+-------------+---------------+------+
| NOTE 1: The requirements     |             |               |      |
| apply when the UE is         |             |               |      |
| configured for DL            |             |               |      |
| multicarrier operation but   |             |               |      |
| is not transmitting.         |             |               |      |
+------------------------------+-------------+---------------+------+

NOTE 1: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

NOTE 2: The Test Requirements are measured in the CELL\_FACH state
instead of in the UE states defined in the Minimum Requirement because
the CELL\_FACH state ensures that the UE receiver is continuously on and
the UE transmitter is off whilst the spectrum analyser searches for
spurious emissions. The UE states defined in the Minimum Requirement
allow the UE receiver to be in discontinuous reception, and using those
UE states during the measurement would have resulted in a complicated
and significantly lengthened test procedure since the UE receiver would
be allowed to be switched off part of the time.
