10 Performance requirement (E-DCH)
==================================

10.1 General
------------

The performance requirements for the UE in this subclause are specified
for the propagation conditions specified in Annex D.2 and the Downlink
Physical channels specified in Annex E.5A.

Unless otherwise stated the performance requirements are specified at
the antenna connector of the UE. For UE(s) with more than one receive
antenna connector the fading of the signals and the AWGN signals applied
to each receiver antenna connector shall be uncorrelated. The levels of
the test signal appled to each of the antenna connectors shall be as
defined in the respective sections below. Enhanced performance
requirements Type 1 are based on receiver diversity.

A UE with one antenna connector may also fulfill the enhanced
performance requirements Type 1. The levels of the test signal are
applied to the single antenna connector as defined in the respective
sections below.

When DCCH has been configured on downlink DCH then DCCH Data shall be
continuously transmitted on downlink DCH during the measurement period.
When there is no signalling to transmit on downlink DCCH then dummy DCCH
transmission as described in Annex C.9 shall be used.

When DTCH has been configured on downlink DCH then DTCH Data shall be
continuously transmitted on downlink DCH during the measurement period.

The MAC header transmission on HS-DSCH for all E-DCH test cases shall
use a correct MAC-hs header consistent with the actual HSDPA
transmission.

The DL and UL RLC SDU size for all E-DCH tests in clause 10 shall be set
according to Annex C.11.3.

Unless otherwise stated, the UE output power for the tests shall be
greater than -10dBm.

NOTE: If tests are performed with maximum UE output power it is known
that this may cause a good UE to fail at least for tests in section
10.4.

For Release 7 and later UEs that support the optional Type 1 enhanced
peformance requirements the UE shall be tested according to this
enhanced performance requirement as well.

10.2 Detection of E-DCH HARQ ACK Indicator Channel (E-HICH)
-----------------------------------------------------------

### 10.2.1 Single link performance

#### 10.2.1.1 Single link performance (10ms TTI)

##### 10.2.1.1.1 Definition and applicability

The receive characteristics of the E-DCH HARQ ACK Indicator Channel
(E-HICH) in different multi-path fading environments are determined by
the missed ACK and false ACK values. The requirements and this test
apply to Release 6 and later releases for all types of UTRA for the FDD
UE that support E-DCH and HSDPA.

##### 10.2.1.1.2 Minimum requirement

For the parameters specified in Table 10.2.1.1.2.1 the average downlink
E-HICH E~c~/I~or~ power ratio shall be below the specified value for the
missed ACK probabilities in Table 10.2.1.1.2.2. For the parameters
specified in Table 10.2.1.1.2.1 the false ACK probability shall be below
the specified value in Table 10.2.1.1.2.3 .

Table 10.2.1.1.2.1: Parameters for E-HICH -- Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------- ------------ -----------
  Parameter                                                                            Unit           Missed ACK   False ACK
  ![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   dBm/3.84 MHz   -60          
  Phase reference                                                                      \-             P-CPICH      
  P-CPICH                                                                              dB             -10          
  E-HICH signalling pattern                                                            \-             100% ACK     100% DTX
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------- ------------ -----------

Table 10.2.1.1.2.2: Minimum requirement for Missed ACK when hybrid ARQ
acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 12 consecutive slots --
Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value          

                                         E-HICH\           (dB)   Missed ACK probability
                                         (dB)                     

  1             VA30                     -35.1             0      0.01
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ------------------------

Table 10.2.1.1.2.3: Minimum requirement for False ACK when hybrid ARQ
acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 12 consecutive slots --
single link

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- -----------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value   
                                         (dB)              False ACK probability
  2             VA30                     0                 0.5
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- -----------------------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 10.2.1

##### 10.2.1.1.3 Test purpose

To verify that the average probability for missed ACK and false ACK when
E-HICH is transmitted using 12 consecutive slots do not exceed the
specified values.

##### 10.2.1.1.4 Method of test

###### 10.2.1.1.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS and AWGN noise source and fading simulator to the UE
antenna connector as shown in figure Figure A.10.

2\) Set the test parameters for the missed ACK test and the false ACK
test as specified in table 10.2.1.1.5.1.to 10.2.1.1.5.3 and table
E.5A.2.

3\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel parameters are defined in Annex
C.11

4\) The value of Absolute Grant Scope shall be set to 0, and the
Absolute Grant shall be set to 5.

5\) The relative grant is not configured. This ensures that the UL
datarate remains constant.

6\) The UE is switched on.

7\) Enter the UE into loopback mode 1, looping back both the 12.2kbps
RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH, and start the loopback test. See TS 34.108 \[3\]
clause 7.3.9 and TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6. To fill
the RLC transmit buffer, run the loopback for \[3\]s before starting the
procedure.

8\) Switch on the fading simulator.

###### 10.2.1.1.4.2 Procedure

NOTE: The measurement principle for the missed ACK test (step 2 to 5)
and for the false ACK test (step 6 to 9) is as follows. Upon the UE
transmission on E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH, the SS reacts with E-HICH = ACK or
DTX. The UE transmits new data or retransmissions on the corresponding
E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH. The SS shall discriminate between:

\(1\) new data is a sign for ACK, received by the UE

\(2\) retransmission is a sign for NACK or DTX, received by the UE. The
later is interpreted as NACK by higher layer and causes retransmission.

. 1. The Nominal Avg. Information Bit Rate in the DL is set to 534 kbps
according to QPSK H-Set 1. The expected througput under this level and
fading conditions is 142 kbps. The UL datarate was configured by
signalling AG value = 5 on the E-AGCH. The expected UL datarate is 71.6
kbps corresponding to E-TFC Index 45.

2\. In the test Missed ACK the SS responds with 100% ACK.

3\. If the UE indicates on the E-DPCCH a retransmission, the ACK from
the SS was received as NACK or DTX by the UE. This is counted as
missed(ACK).

If the UE indicates on the E-DPCCH new data, the ACK from the SS was
received as ACK by the UE. This is counted as correct ACK.

4\. Continue until statistical significance according to Annex F.6.4 is
achieved.

5\. If the number of retransmissions reaches the maximum number of
retransmissions due to several false or missed ACK detections in series,
the first new data on the E-DPDCH with E-DPCCH are not the consequence
of ACK. This case is not counted as sample.

6\. In the test false ACK the SS responds with 100% DTX.

7\. If the UE indicates on the E-DPCCH new data, the DTX from the SS was
received as ACK by the UE. This is counted as false(ACK ). If the UE
indicates on E-DPCCH retransmission, the DTX from the SS was received as
DTX or NACK by the UE. This is counted as correct reception.

8\. Continue until statistical significance according to Annex F.6.4 is
achieved.

9\. The number of retransmissions will reach the maximum number of
transmissions due to several retransmissions in series. The first new
data on the E-DPDCH with E-DPCCH are not the consequence of ACK received
by the UE. This case is not counted as sample.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9.2.1 of 34.108 \[3\] with the
following exceptions:

##### RADIO BEARER SETUP: {#radio-bearer-setup .H6}

  ---------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------
  Information Element                                  Value/remark
  RLC PDU size                                         112
  \- E-DCH Transmission Time                           10 ms
  E-DCH MAC-d flow maximum number of retransmissions   15 (max)
  E-DCH info                                           
  \- Happy bit delay condition                         10 ms (indication of exhausted resources on frame basis)
  ---------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------

##### 10.2.1.1.5. Test requirements

Table 10.2.1.1.5.1: Test Parameters for E-HICH -- Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------- --------------- ------------
  Parameter                                                                            Unit           Missed ACK      False ACK
  ![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   dBm/3.84 MHz   -60             
  Phase reference                                                                      \-             P-CPICH         
  E-HICH                                                                               dB             \--35 (test1)   -∞(test 2)
  E-HICH signalling pattern                                                            \-             100% ACK        100% DTX
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------- --------------- ------------

Table 10.2.1.1.5.2: Test requirement for Missed ACK when hybrid ARQ
acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 12 consecutive slots --
Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value          

                                         E-HICH\           (dB)   Missed ACK probability
                                         (dB)                     

  1             VA30                     -35.0             0.6    0.01
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ------------------------

Table 10.2.1.1.5.3: Test requirement for False ACK when hybrid ARQ
acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 12 consecutive slots --
single link

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- -----------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value   
                                         (dB)              False ACK probability
  2             VA30                     0.6               0.5
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- -----------------------

To pass the test,

the ratio (missed(ACK) / all valid ACKs, sent) ≤ 0.01 and\
the ratio (false(ACK) /(all valid DTX, sent)) ≤ 0.5

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

#### 10.2.1.1A Single link performance (10ms TTI, Type 1)

##### 10.2.1.1A.1 Definition and applicability

The receive characteristics of the E-DCH HARQ ACK Indicator Channel
(E-HICH) in different multi-path fading environments are determined by
the missed ACK values. The requirements and this test apply to Release 7
and later releases for all types of UTRA FDD UEs that support E-DCH and
HSDPA and the optional Type 1 enhanced performance requirements.

##### 10.2.1.1A.2 Minimum requirement

For the parameters specified in Table 10.2.1.1A.2.1 the average downlink
E-HICH E~c~/I~or~ power ratio shall be below the specified value for the
missed ACK probabilities in Table 10.2.1.1A.2.2

Table 10.2.1.1A.2.1: Parameters for E-HICH -- Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------- ------------
  Parameter                                                                            Unit           Missed ACK
  ![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   dBm/3.84 MHz   -60
  Phase reference                                                                      \-             P-CPICH
  P-CPICH                                                                              dB             -10
  E-HICH signalling pattern                                                            \-             100% ACK
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------- ------------

Table 10.2.1.1A.2.2: Enhanced performance requirement Type 1 for Missed
ACK when hybrid ARQ acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 12
consecutive slots -- Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value          

                                         E-HICH\           (dB)   Missed ACK probability
                                         (dB)                     

  1             VA30                     -38.3             0      0.01
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ------------------------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 10.2.1

##### 10.2.1.1A.3 Test purpose

To verify that the average probability for missed ACK when E-HICH is
transmitted using 12 consecutive slots do not exceed the specified
values.

##### 10.2.1.1A.4 Method of test

###### 10.2.1.1A.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS and AWGN noise source and fading simulator to the UE
antenna connectors as shown in figure Figure A.21 for UEs that support
receive diversity or figure A.10 for UEs that do not support receive
diversity.

2\) Set the test parameters for the missed ACK test as specified in
table 10.2.1.1A.5.1and 10.2.1.1A.5.2 and table E.5A.2.

3\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel parameters are defined in Annex
C.11

4\) The value of Absolute Grant Scope shall be set to 0, and the
Absolute Grant shall be set to5.

5\) The relative grant is not configured. This ensures that the UL
datarate remains constant.

6\) The UE is switched on.

7\) Enter the UE into loopback mode 1, looping back both the 12.2kbps
RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH, and start the loopback test. See TS 34.108 \[3\]
clause 7.3.9 and TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6. To fill
the RLC transmit buffer, run the loopback for \[3\]s before starting the
procedure.

8\) Switch on the fading simulators.

###### 10.2.1.1A.4.2 Procedure

NOTE: The measurement principle for the missed ACK test (step 2 to 5) is
as follows. Upon the UE transmission on E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH, the SS
reacts with E-HICH = ACK. The UE transmits new data or retransmissions
on the corresponding E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH. The SS shall discriminate
between:

\(1\) new data is a sign for ACK, received by the UE

\(2\) retransmission is a sign for NACK or DTX, received by the UE. The
later is interpreted as NACK by higher layer and causes retransmission.

1\. The Nominal Avg. Information Bit Rate in the DL is set to 534 kbps
according to QPSK H-Set 1. The expected througput under this level and
fading conditions is 142 kbps. The UL datarate was configured by
signalling AG value = 5 on the E-AGCH. The expected UL datarate is 71.6
kbps corresponding to E-TFC Index 45.

2\. In the test Missed ACK the SS responds with 100% ACK.

3\. If the UE indicates on the E-DPCCH a retransmission, the ACK from
the SS was received as NACK or DTX by the UE. This is counted as
missed(ACK).

If the UE indicates on the E-DPCCH new data, the ACK from the SS was
received as ACK by the UE. This is counted as correct ACK.

4\. Continue until statistical significance according to Annex F.6.4 is
achieved.

5\. If the number of retransmissions reaches the maximum number of
retransmissions due to several false or missed ACK detections in series,
the first new data on the E-DPDCH with E-DPCCH are not the consequence
of ACK. This case is not counted as sample.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-1 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9.2.1 of 34.108 \[3\] with the
following exceptions:

##### RADIO BEARER SETUP: {#radio-bearer-setup-1 .H6}

  ---------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------
  Information Element                                  Value/remark
  RLC PDU size                                         112
  \- E-DCH Transmission Time                           10 ms
  E-DCH MAC-d flow maximum number of retransmissions   15 (max)
  E-DCH info                                           
  \- Happy bit delay condition                         10 ms (indication of exhausted resources on frame basis)
  ---------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------

##### 10.2.1.1A.5. Test requirements

Table 10.2.1.1A.5.1: Test Parameters for E-HICH -- Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------- --------------
  Parameter                                                                            Unit           Missed ACK
  ![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   dBm/3.84 MHz   -60
  Phase reference                                                                      \-             P-CPICH
  E-HICH                                                                               dB             -38.2(test1)
  E-HICH signalling pattern                                                            \-             100% ACK
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------- --------------

Table 10.2.1.1A.5.2: Test requirement Type 1 for Missed ACK when hybrid
ARQ acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 12 consecutive slots
-- Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value          

                                         E-HICH\           (dB)   Missed ACK probability
                                         (dB)                     

  1             VA30                     -38.2             0.6    0.01
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ------------------------

To pass the test,

the ratio (missed(ACK) / all valid ACKs, sent) ≤ 0.01

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

#### 10.2.1.2 Single link performance (2ms TTI)

##### 10.2.1.2.1 Definition and applicability

The receive characteristics of the E-DCH HARQ ACK Indicator Channel
(E-HICH) in different multi-path fading environments are determined by
the missed ACK and false ACK values. The requirements and this test
apply to Release 6 and later releases for all types of UTRA for the FDD
UE that support E-DCH with 2ms TTI and HSDPA.

##### 10.2.1.2.2 Minimum requirement

For the parameters specified in Table 10.2.1.2.2.1 the average downlink
E-HICH E~c~/I~or~ power ratio shall be below the specified value for the
missed ACK probabilities in Table 10.2.1.2.2.2 For the parameters
specified in Table 10.2.1.2.2.1 the false ACK probability shall be below
the specified value in Table 10.2.1.2.2.3.

Table 10.2.1.2.2.1: Parameters for E-HICH -- Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------- ------------ -----------
  Parameter                                                                            Unit           Missed ACK   False ACK
  ![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   dBm/3.84 MHz   -60          
  Phase reference                                                                      \-             P-CPICH      
  P-CPICH                                                                              dB             -10          
  E-HICH signalling pattern                                                            \-             100% ACK     100% DTX
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------- ------------ -----------

Table 10.2.1.2.2.2: Minimum requirement for Missed ACK when hybrid ARQ
acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 3 consecutive slots --
Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value          

                                         E-HICH\           (dB)   Missed ACK probability
                                         (dB)                     

  1             VA30                     -28.3             0      0.01
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ------------------------

Table 10.2.1.2.2.3: Minimum requirement for False ACK when hybrid ARQ
acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 3 consecutive slots --
Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- -----------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value   
                                         (dB)              False ACK probability
  2             VA30                     0                 0.5
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- -----------------------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 10.2.1

##### 10.2.1.2.3 Test purpose

To verify that the average probability for missed ACK and false ACK,
when E-HICH is transmitted using 3 consecutive slots, do not exceed the
specified values.

##### 10.2.1.2.4 Method of test

###### 10.2.1.2.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS and AWGN noise source and fading simulator to the UE
antenna connector as shown in figure Figure A.10.

2\) Set the test parameters for the missed ACK test and the false ACK
test as specified in table 10.2.1.2.5.1.to 10.2.1.2.5.3 and table
E.5A.2.

3\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel parameters are defined in Annex
C.11

4\) The value of Absolute Grant Scope shall be set to the 0 and the
Absolute Grant shall be set to 4.

5\) The relative grant is not configured. This ensures that the UL
datarate remains constant.

6\) The UE is switched on.

7\) Enter the UE into loopback mode 1, looping back both the 12.2kbps
RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH, and start the loopback test. See TS 34.108 \[3\]
clause 7.3.9 and TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6. To fill
the RLC transmit buffer, run the loopback for \[3\]s before starting the
procedure.

8\) Switch on the fading simulator.

###### 10.2.1.2.4.2 Procedure

NOTE: The measurement principle for the missed ACK test (step 2 to 5)
and for the false ACK test (step 6 to 9) is as follows. Upon the UE
transmission on E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH, the SS reacts with E-HICH = ACK or
DTX. The UE transmits new data or retransmissions on the corresponding
E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH. The SS shall discriminate between:

\(1\) new data is a sign for ACK, received by the UE

\(2\) retransmission is a sign for NACK or DTX, received by the UE. The
later is interpreted as NACK by higher layer and causes retransmission.

1\. The Nominal Avg. Information Bit Rate in the DL is set to 534 kbps
according to QPSK H-Set 1. The expected througput under this level and
fading conditions is 142 kbps. The UL data rate was configured by
signalling AG value 4 on the E-AGCH. The expected UL datarate is 273
kbps corresponding to E-TFC Index 39.

2\. In the test Missed ACK the SS responds with 100% ACK.

3\. If the UE indicates on the E-DPCCH a retransmission, the ACK from
the SS was received as NACK or DTX by the UE. This is counted as
missed(ACK).

If the UE indicates on the E-DPCCH new data, the ACK from the SS was
received as ACK by the UE. This is counted as correct ACK.

4\. Continue until statistical significance according to Annex F.6.4 is
achieved.

5\. If the number of retransmissions reaches the maximum number of
retransmissions due to several false or missed ACK detections in series,
the first new data on the E-DPDCH with E-DPCCH are not the consequence
of ACK. This case is not counted as sample.

6\. In the test False ACK the SS responds with 100% DTX.

> 7\. If the UE indicates on the E-DPCCH new data, the DTX from the SS
> was received as ACK by the UE. This is counted as false(ACK ). If the
> UE indicates on E-DPCCH retransmission, the DTX from the SS was
> received as DTX or NACK by the UE. This is counted as correct
> reception.

8\. Continue until statistical significance according to Annex F.6.4 is
achieved.

9\. The number of retransmissions will reach the maximum number of
transmissions due to several retransmissions in series. The first new
data on the E-DPDCH with E-DPCCH are not the consequence of ACK received
by the UE. This case is not counted as sample.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-2 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9.2.1 of 34.108 \[3\] with the
following exceptions:

##### RADIO BEARER SETUP: {#radio-bearer-setup-2 .H6}

  ---------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------
  Information Element                                  Value/remark
  RLC PDU size                                         112
  \- E-DCH Transmission Time                           2ms
  E-DCH MAC-d flow maximum number of retransmissions   15 (max)
  E-DCH info                                           
  \- Happy bit delay condition                         2ms (indication of exhausted resources on TTI basis)
  ---------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------

##### 10.2.1.2.5. Test requirements

Table 10.2.1.2.5.1: Test Parameters for E-HICH -- Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------- ---------------- ------------
  Parameter                                                                            Unit           Missed ACK       False ACK
  ![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   dBm/3.84 MHz   -60              
  Phase reference                                                                      \-             P-CPICH          
  E-HICH                                                                               dB             -28.2 (test 1)   -∞(test 2)
  E-HICH signalling pattern                                                            \-             100% ACK         100% DTX
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------- ---------------- ------------

Table 10.2.1.2.5.2: Test requirement for Missed ACK when hybrid ARQ
acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 3 consecutive slots --
Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value          

                                         E-HICH\           (dB)   Missed ACK probability
                                         (dB)                     

  1             VA30                     -28.2             0.6    0.01
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ------------------------

Table 10.2.1.2.5.3: Test requirement for False ACK when hybrid ARQ
acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 3 consecutive slots --
Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- -----------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value   
                                         (dB)              False ACK probability
  2             VA30                     0.6               0.5
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- -----------------------

To pass the test,

the ratio (missed(ACK) / all valid ACKs, sent) ≤ 0.01 and\
the ratio (false(ACK) /(all valid DTX, sent)) ≤ 0.5

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

#### 10.2.1.2A Single link performance (2ms TTI, Type 1)

##### 10.2.1.2A.1 Definition and applicability

The receive characteristics of the E-DCH HARQ ACK Indicator Channel
(E-HICH) in different multi-path fading environments are determined by
the missed ACK values. The requirements and this test apply to Release 7
and later releases for all types of UTRA FDD UEs that support E-DCH with
2ms TTI and HSDPA and the optional Type 1 enhanced performance
requirements.

##### 10.2.1.2A.2 Minimum requirement

For the parameters specified in Table 10.2.1.2A.2.1 the average downlink
E-HICH E~c~/I~or~ power ratio shall be below the specified value for the
missed ACK probabilities in Table 10.2.1.2A.2.2

Table 10.2.1.2A.2.1: Parameters for E-HICH -- Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------- ------------
  Parameter                                                                            Unit           Missed ACK
  ![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   dBm/3.84 MHz   -60
  Phase reference                                                                      \-             P-CPICH
  P-CPICH                                                                              dB             -10
  E-HICH signalling pattern                                                            \-             100% ACK
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------- ------------

Table 10.2.1.2A.2.2: Enhanced performance requirement Type 1 for Missed
ACK when hybrid ARQ acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 3
consecutive slots -- Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value          

                                         E-HICH\           (dB)   Missed ACK probability
                                         (dB)                     

  1             VA30                     -31.7             0      0.01
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ------------------------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 10.2.1

##### 10.2.1.2A.3 Test purpose

To verify that the average probability for missed ACK, when E-HICH is
transmitted using 3 consecutive slots, do not exceed the specified
values.

##### 10.2.1.2A.4 Method of test

###### 10.2.1.2A.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS and AWGN noise source and fading simulator to the UE
antenna connector as shown in figure Figure A.21 for UEs that support
receive diversity or figure A.10 for UEs that do not support receive
diversity.

2\) Set the test parameters for the missed ACK test as specified in
table 10.2.1.2A.5.1and 10.2.1.2A.5.2 and table E.5A.2.

3\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel parameters are defined in Annex
C.11

4\) The value of Absolute Grant Scope shall be set to the 0 and the
Absolute Grant shall be set to 4.

5\) The relative grant is not configured. This ensures that the UL
datarate remains constant.

6\) The UE is switched on.

7\) Enter the UE into loopback mode 1, looping back both the 12.2kbps
RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH, and start the loopback test. See TS 34.108 \[3\]
clause 7.3.9 and TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6. To fill
the RLC transmit buffer, run the loopback for \[3\]s before starting the
procedure.

8\) Switch on the fading simulator.

###### 10.2.1.2A.4.2 Procedure

NOTE: The measurement principle for the missed ACK test (step 2 to 5) is
as follows. Upon the UE transmission on E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH, the SS
reacts with E-HICH = ACK. The UE transmits new data or retransmissions
on the corresponding E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH. The SS shall discriminate
between:

\(1\) new data is a sign for ACK, received by the UE

\(2\) retransmission is a sign for NACK or DTX, received by the UE. The
later is interpreted as NACK by higher layer and causes retransmission.

1\. The Nominal Avg. Information Bit Rate in the DL is set to 534 kbps
according to QPSK H-Set 1. The expected througput under this level and
fading conditions is 142 kbps. The UL data rate was configured by
signalling AG value 4 on the E-AGCH. The expected UL datarate is 273
kbps corresponding to E-TFC Index 39.

2\. In the test Missed ACK the SS responds with 100% ACK.

3\. If the UE indicates on the E-DPCCH a retransmission, the ACK from
the SS was received as NACK or DTX by the UE. This is counted as
missed(ACK).

If the UE indicates on the E-DPCCH new data, the ACK from the SS was
received as ACK by the UE. This is counted as correct ACK.

4\. Continue until statistical significance according to Annex F.6.4 is
achieved.

5\. If the number of retransmissions reaches the maximum number of
retransmissions due to several false or missed ACK detections in series,
the first new data on the E-DPDCH with E-DPCCH are not the consequence
of ACK. This case is not counted as sample.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-3 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9.2.1 of 34.108 \[3\] with the
following exceptions:

##### RADIO BEARER SETUP: {#radio-bearer-setup-3 .H6}

  ---------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------
  Information Element                                  Value/remark
  RLC PDU size                                         112
  \- E-DCH Transmission Time                           2ms
  E-DCH MAC-d flow maximum number of retransmissions   15 (max)
  E-DCH info                                           
  \- Happy bit delay condition                         2ms (indication of exhausted resources on TTI basis)
  ---------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------

##### 10.2.1.2A.5. Test requirements

Table 10.2.1.2A.5.1: Test Parameters for E-HICH -- Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------- ----------------
  Parameter                                                                            Unit           Missed ACK
  ![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   dBm/3.84 MHz   -60
  Phase reference                                                                      \-             P-CPICH
  E-HICH                                                                               dB             -31.6 (test 1)
  E-HICH signalling pattern                                                            \-             100% ACK
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------- ----------------

Table 10.2.1.2A.5.2: Test requirement Type 1 for Missed ACK when hybrid
ARQ acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 3 consecutive slots
-- Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value          

                                         E-HICH\           (dB)   Missed ACK probability
                                         (dB)                     

  1             VA30                     -31.6             0.6    0.01
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ------------------------

To pass the test,

the ratio (missed(ACK) / all valid ACKs, sent) ≤ 0.01

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

### 10.2.2 Detection in Inter-Cell Handover conditions

#### 10.2.2.1 RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell

##### 10.2.2.1.1 RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell (10ms TTI)

###### 10.2.2.1.1.1 Definition and applicability

The receive characteristics of the E-DCH HARQ ACK Indicator Channel
(E-HICH) is determined during an inter-cell soft handover by the missed
ACK and false ACK error probabilities. During the soft handover a UE
receives signals from different cells. A UE has to be able to detect
E-HICH signalling from different cells belonging to different RLS, not
containing the Serving E-DCH cell.

The requirements and this test apply to Release 6 and later releases for
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support E-DCH and HSDPA.

###### 10.2.2.1.1.2 Minimum requirement

For the parameters specified in Table 10.2.2.1.1.2.1 the average
downlink E-HICH E~c~/I~or~ power ratio of cell belonging to RLS not
containing the Serving E-DCH cell shall be below the specified value for
the missed ACK probabilities in Table 10.2.2.1.1.2.2. For the parameters
specified in Table 10.2.2.1.1.2.1 the false ACK probability shall be
below the specified value in Table 10.2.2.1.1.2.3

Table 10.2.2.1.1.2.1: Requirement scenario parameters for E-HICH -- cell
belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ------------------- -------------------
  Parameter                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Unit           Missed ACK          False ACK
  ![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                                                                                                                         dBm/3.84 MHz   -60                 
  Phase reference                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            \-             P-CPICH             
  P-CPICH (\*)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               dB             -10                 
  E-HICH signalling pattern for the Serving E-DCH cell                                                                                                                                                                                                       \-             100% NACK (-1)^1^   100% NACK (-1)^1^
  E-HICH signalling pattern for cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell                                                                                                                                                                                 100% ACK (+1)       100% NACK (0)
  NOTE 1: The Serving E-DCH cell E-HICH power level is set to -16 dB when hybrid ARQ acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 3 consecutive slots and to -23 dB when hybrid ARQ acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 12 consecutive slots.                                      
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ------------------- -------------------

Table 10.2.2.1.1.2.2: Minimum requirement for Missed ACK when hybrid ARQ
acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 12 consecutive slots --
cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value                                            

                                         E-HICH\           *Î~or1~/I~oc~* and *Î~or2~/I~oc~* (dB)   Missed ACK probability
                                         (dB)                                                       

  1             VA30                     -23.6             0                                        0.05
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------

Table 10.2.2.1.1.2.3: Minimum requirement for False ACK when hybrid ARQ
acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 12 consecutive slots --
cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ---------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value                          
                                         *Î~or1~/I~oc~* and *Î~or2~/I~oc~* (dB)   False ACK probability
  2             VA30                     0                                        2E-4
  ------------- ------------------------ ---------------------------------------- -----------------------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 10.2.2.

###### 10.2.2.1.1.3 Test Purpose

NOTE: Through all the text below including clause 10.2.2.1.5 the
following abbreviation holds: Cell 1: cell belonging to RLS containing
the Serving E-DCH cell, Cell 2: cell belonging to RLS not containing the
Serving E-DCH cell

To verify that during an inter-cell soft handover for cell 2 the average
probability for missed ACK and the average probability for false ACK,
when E-HICH is transmitted using 12 consecutive slots, does not exceed
specified values.

###### 10.2.2.1.1.4 Method of test

##### 10.2.2.1.1.4.1 Initial conditions {#initial-conditions-2 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS and AWGN noise source and fading simulators to the UE
antenna connector as shown in figure Figure A.11.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel parameters are defined in Annex
C.11.

3\) Set the test parameters for the missed ACK and false ACK test as
specified in table 10.2.2.1.1.5.1 to 10.2.2.1.1.5.3 and table E.5A.3,
with the exception of *Î~or2~* that shall be set to -∞. Set the fading
conditions to VA30.

4\) The value of Absolute Grant Scope shall be set to 0, and the
Absolute Grant shall be set to 5

5\) The relative grant is not configured. This ensures that the UL
datarate remains constant.

6\) The UE is switched on.

7\) Enter the UE into loopback mode 1, looping back both the 12.2kbps
RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH, and start the loopback test. See TS 34.108 \[3\]
clause 7.3.9 and TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6. To fill
the RLC transmit buffer, run the loopback for \[3\]s before starting the
procedure

8\) Set *Î~or2~* according to tables 10.2.2.1.1.5.2 to 10.2.2.1.1.5.3.
The downlink DPCH of cell 2 must remain inactivated.

9\) UE shall transmit a MEASUREMENT REPORT message triggered by event 1A
containing the CFN-SFN time difference between cell 1 and cell 2.

10\) The downlink DPCH of cell 2 shall be activated.

11\) SS shall send an ACTIVE SET UPDATE message, adding cell 2 to the
active set.

12\) The fading simulators are switched on.

##### 10.2.2.1.1.4.2 Procedure {#procedure-2 .H6}

NOTE: The measurement principle for the missed ACK test (step 2 to 5)
and for the false ACK test (step 6 to 9) is as follows. Upon the UE
transmission on E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH, the SS responds with E-HICH = ACK
on the cell 2 and with E-HICH = NACK on the cell 1. The UE transmits new
data or retransmissions on the corresponding E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH. The SS
shall discriminate between:

\(1\) new data is a sign for ACK, received by the UE from any of the
cells

\(2\) retransmission is a sign for NACK received by the UE on both
cells.

1\. The Nominal Avg. Information Bit Rate in the DL is set to 534 kbps
according to QPSK H-Set 1. The expected thoughput under this level and
fading conditions is tested with a single cell in clause 9.2.1, but the
DL throughput for this test case will be less than for the single cell
case because of interference from Cell 2. The DL throughput for this
test case is estimated based on the HSDPA throughput corresponding to
the subtests using \"HS-PDSCH Ec/Ior = -6dB\" condition in 9.2.1A. The
worst case for a conformant UE is 22 kbps. The UL data rate was
configured by signalling AG value 5 on the E-AGCH. The expected UL
datarate is 71.6 kbps corresponding to E-TFC Index 45.

2\. In the test Missed ACK the SS responds with 100% NACK (-1) on cell 1
and 100% ACK (1) cell 2.

3\. If the UE indicates on the E-DPCCH a retransmission, the ACK from
cell 2 was received as NACK by the UE. This is counted as missed (ACK).
If the UE indicates on the E-DPCCH new data, the ACK from cell 2 was
received as ACK by the UE. This is counted as correct ACK.

4\. Continue until statistical significance according to Annex F.6.4 is
achieved.

5\. If the number of retransmissions reaches the maximum number of
retransmissions due to several false or missed ACK detections in series,
the first new data on the E-DPDCH with E-DPCCH are not the consequence
of ACK. This case is not counted as sample.

6\. In the test false ACK the SS responds with 100% NACK (-1) on cell 1
and with 100% NACK (0) on cell 2.

7\. If the UE indicates on the E-DPCCH new data, the NACK (DTX) from the
SS on cell 2 was received as ACK by the UE. This is counted as false(ACK
). If the UE indicates on the the E-DPCCH retransmission, then NACK
(DTX) from cell 2 was received as NACK by the UE. This is counted as
correct reception.

8\. Continue until statistical significance according to Annex F.6.4 is
achieved.

9\. The number of retransmissions will reach the maximum number of
transmissions due to several retransmissions in series. The first new
data on the E-DPDCH with E-DPCCH are not the consequence of ACK received
by the UE. This case is not counted as sample.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-4 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9.2.1 of 34.108 \[3\] with the
following exceptions:

##### RADIO BEARER SETUP: {#radio-bearer-setup-4 .H6}

  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------
  Information Element                                  Value/remark
  -RLC PDU size                                        112
  \- E-DCH Transmission Time                           10 ms
  E-DCH MAC-d flow maximum number of retransmissions   15 (max)
  E-DCH info                                           
  \- Happy bit delay condition                         10 ms
  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------

##### ACTIVE SET UPDATE message: {#active-set-update-message .H6}

  ----------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------
  Information Element/Group name                  Value/Remark                                                                                                                                                         Version
  Message Type (10.2.17)                                                                                                                                                                                               
  UE information elements                                                                                                                                                                                              
  \- RRC transaction identifier                   0                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Integrity check info                                                                                                                                                                                              
  -message authentication code                    SS calculates the value of MAC-I for this message and writes to this IE. The first/ leftmost bit of the bit string contains the most significant bit of the MAC-I.   
  -RRC message sequence number                    SS provides the value of this IE, from its internal counter.                                                                                                         
  \- Activation time                              \"now\".                                                                                                                                                             
  \- New U-RNTI                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- New H-RNTI                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  \- New Primary E-RNTI                           Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  \- New Secondary E-RNTI                         Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  CN information elements                                                                                                                                                                                              
  \- CN Information info                          Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  Phy CH information elements                                                                                                                                                                                          
  Uplink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                               
  \- Maximum allowed UL TX power                  33 dBm                                                                                                                                                               
  Downlink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                             
  \- Radio link addition information              1                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Radio link addition information                                                                                                                                                                                   
  \- Primary CPICH info                                                                                                                                                                                                
  \- Primary scrambling code                      Same as adding cell                                                                                                                                                  
  \- Downlink DPCH info for each RL                                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- CHOICE mode                                  FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  \- Primary CPICH usage for channel estimation   Primary CPICH may be used                                                                                                                                            
  \- DPCH frame offset                            This should be reflected by the IE\" Cell synchronisation information\" in received MEASUREMENT REPORT message                                                       
  \- Secondary CPICH info                         Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- DL channelisation code                                                                                                                                                                                            
  \- Secondary scrambling code                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- Spreading factor                             128                                                                                                                                                                  
  \- Code number                                  96                                                                                                                                                                   
  \- Scrambling code change                       No code change                                                                                                                                                       
  \- TPC combination index                        1                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Closed loop timing adjustment mode           Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- Downlink F-DPCH info for each RL             Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  E-HICH Information                                                                                                                                                                                                   Rel-6
  \- Channelisation Code                          6                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Signature Sequence                           1                                                                                                                                                                    
  E-RGCH Information                              Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  \- Radio link removal information               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- TX Diversity Mode                            Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  Serving HS-DSCH cell information                Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  E-DCH reconfiguration information               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  ----------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------

###### 10.2.2.1.1.5 Test Requirements

For table 10.2.2.1.1.5.1, the average downlink E- HICH E~c~/I~or~ power
ratio shall be below the specified value for missed ACK probability in
Table 10.2.2.1.1.5.2. For table 10.2.2.1.1.5.1, the false ACK
probability shall be below the specified value in Table 10.2.2.1.1.5.3

Table 10.2.2.1.1.5.1: Requirement scenario parameters for E-HICH -- cell
belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ------------------- -------------------
  Parameter Note 1                                                                                                                                  Unit           Missed ACK          False ACK
  ![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                dBm/3.84 MHz   -60                 
  Phase reference                                                                                                                                   \-             P-CPICH             
  E-HICH~1~                                                                                                                                         dB             -22.9               
  E-HICH~2~                                                                                                                                         dB             -23.5 (test1)       -∞ (test 2)
  HS-DPSCH~1~                                                                                                                                       dB             -2.9(test 1)        -2.9(test 2)
  E-HICH signalling pattern for the Serving E-DCH cell                                                                                              \-             100% NACK (-1)^1^   100% NACK (-1)^1^
  E-HICH signalling pattern for cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell                                                                        100% ACK (+1)       100% NACK (0)
  NOTE 1: Index 1: cell belonging to RLS containing the Serving E-DCH cell, Index 2: cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell.                                      
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ------------------- -------------------

Table 10.2.2.1.1.5.2: Test requirement for Missed ACK when hybrid ARQ
acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 12 consecutive slots --
cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value                                            

                                         E-HICH\           *Î~or1~/I~oc~* and *Î~or2~/I~oc~* (dB)   Missed ACK probability
                                         (dB)                                                       

  1             VA30                     -23.5             0.6                                      0.05
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------

Table 10.2.2.1.1.5.3: Test requirement for False ACK when hybrid ARQ
acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 12 consecutive slots --
cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ---------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value                          
                                         *Î~or1~/I~oc~* and *Î~or2~/I~oc~* (dB)   False ACK probability
  2             VA30                     0.6                                      2E-4
  ------------- ------------------------ ---------------------------------------- -----------------------

To pass the test,

The ratio (missed (ACK) / all valid ACKs, sent) \<= 0.05 and

The ratio (false (ACK) / all valid samples) \<= 0.0002

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

##### 10.2.2.1.1A RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell (10ms TTI, Type 1)

###### 10.2.2.1.1A.1 Definition and applicability

The receive characteristics of the E-DCH HARQ ACK Indicator Channel
(E-HICH) is determined during an inter-cell soft handover by the missed
ACK error probabilities. During the soft handover a UE receives signals
from different cells. A UE has to be able to detect E-HICH signalling
from different cells belonging to different RLS, not containing the
Serving E-DCH cell.

The requirements and this test apply to Release 7 and later releases for
all types of UTRA FDD UEs that support E-DCH and HSDPAand the optional
Type 1 enhanced performance requirements.

###### 10.2.2.1.1A.2 Minimum requirement

For the parameters specified in Table 10.2.2.1.1A.2.1 the average
downlink E-HICH E~c~/I~or~ power ratio of cell belonging to RLS not
containing the Serving E-DCH cell shall be below the specified value for
the missed ACK probabilities in Table 10.2.2.1.1A.2.2.

Table 10.2.2.1.1A.2.1: Requirement scenario parameters for E-HICH --
cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- -------------------
  Parameter                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Unit           Missed ACK
  ![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                                                                                                                         dBm/3.84 MHz   -60
  Phase reference                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            \-             P-CPICH
  P-CPICH (\*)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               dB             -10
  E-HICH signalling pattern for the Serving E-DCH cell                                                                                                                                                                                                       \-             100% NACK (-1)^1^
  E-HICH signalling pattern for cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell                                                                                                                                                                                 100% ACK (+1)
  NOTE 1: The Serving E-DCH cell E-HICH power level is set to -16 dB when hybrid ARQ acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 3 consecutive slots and to -23 dB when hybrid ARQ acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 12 consecutive slots.                  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- -------------------

Table 10.2.2.1.1A.2.2: Enhanced performance requirement Type 1 for
Missed ACK when hybrid ARQ acknowledgement indicator is transmitted
using 12 consecutive slots -- cell belonging to RLS not containing the
Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value                                            

                                         E-HICH\           *Î~or1~/I~oc~* and *Î~or2~/I~oc~* (dB)   Missed ACK probability
                                         (dB)                                                       

  1             VA30                     -27.8             0                                        0.05
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 10.2.2.

###### 10.2.2.1.1A.3 Test Purpose

NOTE: Through all the text below including clause 10.2.2.1.5 the
following abbreviation holds: Cell 1: cell belonging to RLS containing
the Serving E-DCH cell, Cell 2: cell belonging to RLS not containing the
Serving E-DCH cell

To verify that during an inter-cell soft handover for cell 2 the average
probability for missed ACK, when E-HICH is transmitted using 12
consecutive slots, does not exceed specified values.

###### 10.2.2.1.1A.4 Method of test

##### 10.2.2.1.1A.4.1 Initial conditions {#a.4.1-initial-conditions-2 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS and AWGN noise source and fading simulators to the UE
antenna connector as shown in figure Figure A.24 for UEs that support
receive diversity or figure A.11 for UEs that do not support receive
diversity..

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel parameters are defined in Annex
C.11

3\) Set the test parameters for the missed ACK test as specified in
table 10.2.2.1.1A.5.1 and 10.2.2.1.1A.5.2 and table E.5A.3 with the
exception of *Î~or2~* that shall be set to -∞.. Set the fading
conditions to VA 30

4\) The value of Absolute Grant Scope shall be set to 0, and the
Absolute Grant shall be set to 5

5\) The relative grant is not configured. This ensures that the UL
datarate remains constant.

6\) The UE is switched on.

7\) Enter the UE into loopback mode 1, looping back both the 12.2kbps
RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH, and start the loopback test. See TS 34.108 \[3\]
clause 7.3.9 and TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6. To fill
the RLC transmit buffer, run the loopback for \[3\]s before starting the
procedure

8\) Set *Î~or2~* according to tables 10.2.2.1.1A.5.1 to 10.2.2.1.1A.5.2.
The downlink DPCH of cell 2 must remain inactivated.

9\) UE shall transmit a MEASUREMENT REPORT message triggered by event 1A
containing the CFN-SFN time difference between cell 1 and cell 2.

10\) The downlink DPCH of cell 2 shall be activated.

11\) SS shall send an ACTIVE SET UPDATE message, adding cell 2 to the
active set.

12\) The fading simulators are switched on

##### 10.2.2.1.1A.4.2 Procedure {#a.4.2-procedure-2 .H6}

NOTE: The measurement principle for the missed ACK test (step 2 to 5) is
as follows. Upon the UE transmission on E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH, the SS
responds with E-HICH = ACK on the cell 2 and with E-HICH = NACK on the
cell 1. The UE transmits new data or retransmissions on the
corresponding E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH. The SS shall discriminate between:

\(1\) new data is a sign for ACK, received by the UE from any of the
cells

\(2\) retransmission is a sign for NACK received by the UE on both
cells.

1\. The Nominal Avg. Information Bit Rate in the DL is set to 534 kbps
according to QPSK H-Set 1. The expected thoughput under this level and
fading conditions is tested with a single cell in clause 9.2.1, but the
DL throughput for this test case will be less than for the single cell
case because of interference from Cell 2. The DL throughput for this
test case is estimated based on the HSDPA throughput corresponding to
the subtests using \"HS-PDSCH Ec/Ior = -6dB\" condition in 9.2.1A. The
worst case for a conformant UE is 22 kbps. The UL data rate was
configured by signalling AG value 5 on the E-AGCH. The expected UL
datarate is 71.6 kbps corresponding to E-TFC Index 45.

2\. In the test Missed ACK the SS responds with 100% NACK (-1) on cell 1
and 100% ACK (1) cell 2.

3\. If the UE indicates on the E-DPCCH a retransmission, the ACK from
cell 2 was received as NACK by the UE. This is counted as missed (ACK).
If the UE indicates on the E-DPCCH new data, the ACK from cell 2 was
received as ACK by the UE. This is counted as correct ACK.

4\. Continue until statistical significance according to Annex F.6.4 is
achieved.

5\. If the number of retransmissions reaches the maximum number of
retransmissions due to several false or missed ACK detections in series,
the first new data on the E-DPDCH with E-DPCCH are not the consequence
of ACK. This case is not counted as sample.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-5 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9.2.1 of 34.108 \[3\] with the
following exceptions:

##### RADIO BEARER SETUP: {#radio-bearer-setup-5 .H6}

  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------
  Information Element                                  Value/remark
  -RLC PDU size                                        112
  \- E-DCH Transmission Time                           10 ms
  E-DCH MAC-d flow maximum number of retransmissions   15 (max)
  E-DCH info                                           
  \- Happy bit delay condition                         10 ms
  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------

##### ACTIVE SET UPDATE message: {#active-set-update-message-1 .H6}

  ----------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------
  Information Element/Group name                  Value/Remark                                                                                                                                                         Version
  Message Type (10.2.17)                                                                                                                                                                                               
  UE information elements                                                                                                                                                                                              
  \- RRC transaction identifier                   0                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Integrity check info                                                                                                                                                                                              
  -message authentication code                    SS calculates the value of MAC-I for this message and writes to this IE. The first/ leftmost bit of the bit string contains the most significant bit of the MAC-I.   
  -RRC message sequence number                    SS provides the value of this IE, from its internal counter.                                                                                                         
  \- Activation time                              \"now\".                                                                                                                                                             
  \- New U-RNTI                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- New H-RNTI                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  \- New Primary E-RNTI                           Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  \- New Secondary E-RNTI                         Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  CN information elements                                                                                                                                                                                              
  \- CN Information info                          Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  Phy CH information elements                                                                                                                                                                                          
  Uplink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                               
  \- Maximum allowed UL TX power                  33 dBm                                                                                                                                                               
  Downlink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                             
  \- Radio link addition information              1                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Radio link addition information                                                                                                                                                                                   
  \- Primary CPICH info                                                                                                                                                                                                
  \- Primary scrambling code                      Same as adding cell                                                                                                                                                  
  \- Downlink DPCH info for each RL                                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- CHOICE mode                                  FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  \- Primary CPICH usage for channel estimation   Primary CPICH may be used                                                                                                                                            
  \- DPCH frame offset                            This should be reflected by the IE\" Cell synchronisation information\" in received MEASUREMENT REPORT message                                                       
  \- Secondary CPICH info                         Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- DL channelisation code                                                                                                                                                                                            
  \- Secondary scrambling code                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- Spreading factor                             128                                                                                                                                                                  
  \- Code number                                  96                                                                                                                                                                   
  \- Scrambling code change                       No code change                                                                                                                                                       
  \- TPC combination index                        1                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Closed loop timing adjustment mode           Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- Downlink F-DPCH info for each RL             Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  E-HICH Information                                                                                                                                                                                                   Rel-6
  \- Channelisation Code                          6                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Signature Sequence                           1                                                                                                                                                                    
  E-RGCH Information                              Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  \- Radio link removal information               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- TX Diversity Mode                            Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  Serving HS-DSCH cell information                Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  E-DCH reconfiguration information               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  ----------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------

###### 10.2.2.1.1A.5 Test Requirements

For Table 10.2.2.1.1A.5.1, the average downlink E- HICH E~c~/I~or~ power
ratio shall be below the specified value for missed ACK probability in
Table 10.2.2.1.1A.5.2.

Table 10.2.2.1.1A.5.1: Requirement scenario parameters for E-HICH --
cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- -------------------
  Parameter Note 1                                                                                                                                  Unit           Missed ACK
  ![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                dBm/3.84 MHz   -60
  Phase reference                                                                                                                                   \-             P-CPICH
  E-HICH~1~                                                                                                                                         dB             -22.9
  E-HICH~2~                                                                                                                                         dB             -27.7 (test1)
  HS-DPSCH~1~                                                                                                                                       dB             -2.9(test 1)
  E-HICH signalling pattern for the Serving E-DCH cell                                                                                              \-             100% NACK (-1)^1^
  E-HICH signalling pattern for cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell                                                                        100% ACK (+1)
  NOTE 1: Index 1: cell belonging to RLS containing the Serving E-DCH cell, Index 2: cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell.                  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- -------------------

Table 10.2.2.1.1A.5.2: Test requirement Type 1 for Missed ACK when
hybrid ARQ acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 12 consecutive
slots -- cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value                                            

                                         E-HICH\           *Î~or1~/I~oc~* and *Î~or2~/I~oc~* (dB)   Missed ACK probability
                                         (dB)                                                       

  1             VA30                     -27.7             0.6                                      0.05
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------

To pass the test,

The ratio (missed (ACK) / all valid ACKs, sent) \<= 0.05

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

##### 10.2.2.1.2 RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell (2ms TTI)

###### 10.2.2.1.2.1 Definition and applicability

The receive characteristics of the E-DCH HARQ ACK Indicator Channel
(E-HICH) is determined during an inter-cell soft handover by the missed
ACK and false ACK error probabilities. During the soft handover a UE
receives signals from different cells. A UE has to be able to detect
E-HICH signalling from different cells belonging to different RLS, not
containing the Serving E-DCH cell.

The requirements and this test apply to Release 6 and later releases for
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support E-DCH with 2ms TTI and
HSDPA.

###### 10.2.2.1.2.2 Minimum requirement 

For the parameters specified in Table 10.2.2.1.2.2.1 the average
downlink E-HICH E~c~/I~or~ power ratio of cell belonging to RLS not
containing the Serving E-DCH cell shall be below the specified value for
the missed ACK probabilities in Table 10.2.2.1.2.2.2. For the parameters
specified in Table 10.2.2.1.2.2.1 the false ACK probability shall be
below the specified value in Table 10.2.2.1.2.2.3.

Table 10.2.2.1.2.2.1: Requirement scenario parameters for E-HICH -- cell
belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ------------------- -------------------
  Parameter                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Unit           Missed ACK          False ACK
  ![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                                                                                                                         dBm/3.84 MHz   -60                 
  Phase reference                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            \-             P-CPICH             
  P-CPICH (\*)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               dB             -10                 
  E-HICH signalling pattern for the Serving E-DCH cell                                                                                                                                                                                                       \-             100% NACK (-1)^1^   100% NACK (-1)^1^
  E-HICH signalling pattern for cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell                                                                                                                                                                                 100% ACK (+1)       100% NACK (0)
  NOTE 1: The Serving E-DCH cell E-HICH power level is set to -16 dB when hybrid ARQ acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 3 consecutive slots and to -23 dB when hybrid ARQ acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 12 consecutive slots.                                      
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ------------------- -------------------

Table 10.2.2.1.2.2.2: Minimum requirement for Missed ACK when hybrid ARQ
acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 3 consecutive slots --
cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value                                            

                                         E-HICH\           *Î~or1~/I~oc~* and *Î~or2~/I~oc~* (dB)   Missed ACK probability
                                         (dB)                                                       

  1             VA30                     -16.3             0                                        0.05
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------

Table 10.2.2.1.2.2.3: Minimum requirement for False ACK when hybrid ARQ
acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 3 consecutive slots --
cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ---------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value                          
                                         *Î~or1~/I~oc~* and *Î~or2~/I~oc~* (dB)   False ACK probability
  2             VA30                     0                                        2E-4
  ------------- ------------------------ ---------------------------------------- -----------------------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 10.2.2.

###### 10.2.2.1.2.3 Test Purpose

NOTE: Through all the text below including clause 10.2.2.1.2.5 the
following abbreviation holds: Cell 1: cell belonging to RLS containing
the Serving E-DCH cell, Cell 2: cell belonging to RLS not containing the
Serving E-DCH cell

To verify that during an inter-cell soft handover for cell 2 the average
probability for missed ACK and the average probability for false ACK,
when E-HICH is transmitted using 3 consecutive slots, does not exceed
specified values.

###### 10.2.2.1.2.4 Method of test

####### 10.2.2.1.2.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS and AWGN noise source and fading simulators to the UE
antenna connector as shown in Figure A.11.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel parameters are defined in Annex
C.11.

3\) Set the test parameters for the missed ACK and false ACK test as
specified in table 10.2.2.1.2.5.1 to 10.2.2.1.2.5.3 and table E.5A.3
with the exception of *Î~or2~* that shall be set to -∞. Set the fading
conditions to VA30

4\) The value of Absolute Grant Scope shall be set to 0 and the Absolute
Grant shall be set to 3.

5\) The relative grant is not configured. This ensures that the UL
datarate remains constant.

6\) The UE is switched on.

7\) Enter the UE into loopback mode 1, looping back both the 12.2kbps
RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH, and start the loopback test. See TS 34.108 \[3\]
clause 7.3.9 and TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6. To fill
the RLC transmit buffer, run the loopback for \[3\]s before starting the
procedure.

8\) Set *Î~or2~* according to tables 10.2.2.1.2.5.2 to 10.2.2.1.2.5.3.
The downlink DPCH of cell 2 must remain inactivated.

9\) UE shall transmit a MEASUREMENT REPORT message triggered by event 1A
containing the CFN-SFN time difference between cell 1 and cell 2.

10\) The downlink DPCH of cell 2 shall be activated.

11\) SS shall send an ACTIVE SET UPDATE message, adding cell 2 to the
active set.

12\) The fading simulators are switched on.

####### 10.2.2.1.2.4.2 Procedure

NOTE: The measurement principle for the missed ACK test (step 2 to 5)
and for the false ACK test (step 6 to 9) is as follows. Upon the UE
transmission on E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH, the SS responds with E-HICH = ACK
on the cell 2 and with E-HICH = NACK on the cell 1. The UE transmits new
data or retransmissions on the corresponding E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH. The SS
shall discriminate between:

\(1\) new data is a sign for ACK, received by the UE from any of the
cells

\(2\) retransmission is a sign for NACK received by the UE on both
cells.

1\. The Nominal Avg. Information Bit Rate in the DL is set to 534 kbps
according to QPSK H-Set 1. The expected thoughput under this level and
fading conditions is tested with a single cell in clause 9.2.1, but the
DL throughput for this test case will be less than for the single cell
case because of interference from Cell 2. The DL throughput for this
test case is estimated based on the HSDPA throughput corresponding to
the subtests using \"HS-PDSCH Ec/Ior = -6dB\" condition in 9.2.1A. The
worst case for a conformant UE is 22 kbps. The UL data rate was
configured by signalling AG value 3 on the E-AGCH. The expected UL
datarate is 123.5 kbps corresponding to E-TFC Index 21

2\. In the test Missed ACK the SS responds with 100% NACK (-1) on cell 1
and 100% ACK (1) cell 2.

3\. If the UE indicates on the the E-DPCCH a retransmission, the ACK
from cell 2 was received as NACK by the UE. This is counted as missed
(ACK). If the UE indicates on the E-DPCCH new data, the ACK from cell 2
was received as ACK by the UE. This is counted as correct ACK.

4\. Continue until statistical significance according to Annex F.6.4 is
achieved.

5\. If the number of retransmissions reaches the maximum number of
retransmissions due to several false or missed ACK detections in series,
the first new data on the E-DPDCH with E-DPCCH are not the consequence
of ACK. This case is not counted as sample.

6\. In the test false ACK the SS responds with 100% NACK (-1) on cell 1
and with 100% NACK (0) on cell 2.

7\. If the UE indicates on the the E-DPCCH new data, the NACK (DTX) from
the SS on cell 2 was received as ACK by the UE. This is counted as
false(ACK ). If the UE indicates on the the E-DPCCH retransmission, then
NACK (DTX) from cell 2 was received as NACK by the UE. This is counted
as correct reception.

8\. Continue until statistical significance according to Annex F.6.4 is
achieved.

9\. The number of retransmissions will reach the maximum number of
transmissions due to several retransmissions in series. The first new
data on the E-DPDCH with E-DPCCH are not the consequence of ACK received
by the UE. This case is not counted as sample.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-6 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9.2.1 of 34.108 \[3\] with the
following exceptions:

##### RADIO BEARER SETUP: {#radio-bearer-setup-6 .H6}

  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------
  Information Element                                  Value/remark
  -RLC PDU size                                        112
  \- E-DCH Transmission Time                           2ms
  E-DCH MAC-d flow maximum number of retransmissions   15 (max)
  E-DCH info                                           
  \- Happy bit delay condition                         2ms
  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------

##### ACTIVE SET UPDATE message: {#active-set-update-message-2 .H6}

  ----------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------
  Information Element/Group name                  Value/Remark                                                                                                                                                         Version
  Message Type (10.2.17)                                                                                                                                                                                               
  UE information elements                                                                                                                                                                                              
  \- RRC transaction identifier                   0                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Integrity check info                                                                                                                                                                                              
  -message authentication code                    SS calculates the value of MAC-I for this message and writes to this IE. The first/ leftmost bit of the bit string contains the most significant bit of the MAC-I.   
  -RRC message sequence number                    SS provides the value of this IE, from its internal counter.                                                                                                         
  \- Activation time                              \"now\".                                                                                                                                                             
  \- New U-RNTI                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- New H-RNTI                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  \- New Primary E-RNTI                           Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  \- New Secondary E-RNTI                         Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  CN information elements                                                                                                                                                                                              
  \- CN Information info                          Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  Phy CH information elements                                                                                                                                                                                          
  Uplink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                               
  \- Maximum allowed UL TX power                  33 dBm                                                                                                                                                               
  Downlink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                             
  \- Radio link addition information              1                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Radio link addition information                                                                                                                                                                                   
  \- Primary CPICH info                                                                                                                                                                                                
  \- Primary scrambling code                      Same as adding cell                                                                                                                                                  
  \- Downlink DPCH info for each RL                                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- CHOICE mode                                  FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  \- Primary CPICH usage for channel estimation   Primary CPICH may be used                                                                                                                                            
  \- DPCH frame offset                            This should be reflected by the IE\" Cell synchronisation information\" in received MEASUREMENT REPORT message                                                       
  \- Secondary CPICH info                         Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- DL channelisation code                                                                                                                                                                                            
  \- Secondary scrambling code                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- Spreading factor                             128                                                                                                                                                                  
  \- Code number                                  96                                                                                                                                                                   
  \- Scrambling code change                       No code change                                                                                                                                                       
  \- TPC combination index                        1                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Closed loop timing adjustment mode           Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- Downlink F-DPCH info for each RL             Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  E-HICH Information                                                                                                                                                                                                   Rel-6
  \- Channelisation Code                          6                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Signature Sequence                           1                                                                                                                                                                    
  E-RGCH Information                              Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  \- Radio link removal information               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- TX Diversity Mode                            Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  Serving HS-DSCH cell information                Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  E-DCH reconfiguration information               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  ----------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------

###### 10.2.2.1.2.5 Test Requirements

For table 10.2.2.1.2.5.1, the average downlink E- HICH E~c~/I~or~ power
ratio shall be below the specified value for missed ACK probability in
Table 10.2.2.1.2.5.2. For table 10.2.2.1.2.5.1, the false ACK
probability shall be below the specified value in Table 10.2.2.1.2.5.3

Table 10.2.2.1.2.5.1: Requirement scenario parameters for E-HICH -- cell
belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ------------------- -------------------
  Parameter Note 1                                                                                                                                  Unit           Missed ACK          False ACK
  ![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                dBm/3.84 MHz   -60                 
  Phase reference                                                                                                                                   \-             P-CPICH             
  E-HICH~1~                                                                                                                                         dB             -15.9               
  E-HICH~2~                                                                                                                                         dB             -16.2 (test 1)      -∞ (test 2)
  HS-DPSCH~1~                                                                                                                                       dB             -3.1(test 1)        -3.1(test 2)
  E-HICH signalling pattern for the Serving E-DCH cell                                                                                              \-             100% NACK (-1)^1^   100% NACK (-1)^1^
  E-HICH signalling pattern for cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell                                                                        100% ACK (+1)       100% NACK (0)
  NOTE 1: Index 1: cell belonging to RLS containing the Serving E-DCH cell, Index 2: cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell.                                      
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ------------------- -------------------

Table 10.2.2.1.2.5.2 Test requirement for Missed ACK when hybrid ARQ
acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 3 consecutive slots --
cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value                                            

                                         E-HICH\           *Î~or1~/I~oc~* and *Î~or2~/I~oc~* (dB)   Missed ACK probability
                                         (dB)                                                       

  1             VA30                     -16.2             0.6                                      0.05
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------

Table 10.2.2.1.2.5.3: Test requirement for False ACK when hybrid ARQ
acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 3 consecutive slots --
cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ---------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value                          
                                         *Î~or1~/I~oc~* and *Î~or2~/I~oc~* (dB)   False ACK probability
  2             VA30                     0.6                                      2E-4
  ------------- ------------------------ ---------------------------------------- -----------------------

To pass the test,

The ratio (missed (ACK) / all valid ACKs, sent) \<= 0.05 and

The ratio (false (ACK) / all valid samples) \<= 0.0002

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

##### 10.2.2.1.2A RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell (2ms TTI, Type 1)

###### 10.2.2.1.2A.1 Definition and applicability

The receive characteristics of the E-DCH HARQ ACK Indicator Channel
(E-HICH) is determined during an inter-cell soft handover by the missed
ACK error probabilities. During the soft handover a UE receives signals
from different cells. A UE has to be able to detect E-HICH signalling
from different cells belonging to different RLS, not containing the
Serving E-DCH cell.

The requirements and this test apply to Release 7 and later releases for
all types of UTRA FDD UEs that support E-DCH with 2ms TTI and HSDPA and
the optional Type 1 enhanced performance requirements.

###### 10.2.2.1.2A.2 Minimum requirement 

For the parameters specified in Table 10.2.2.1.2A.2.1 the average
downlink E-HICH E~c~/I~or~ power ratio of cell belonging to RLS not
containing the Serving E-DCH cell shall be below the specified value for
the missed ACK probabilities in Table 10.2.2.1.2A.2.2.

Table 10.2.2.1.2A.2.1: Requirement scenario parameters for E-HICH --
cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- -------------------
  Parameter                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Unit           Missed ACK
  ![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                                                                                                                         dBm/3.84 MHz   -60
  Phase reference                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            \-             P-CPICH
  P-CPICH (\*)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               dB             -10
  E-HICH signalling pattern for the Serving E-DCH cell                                                                                                                                                                                                       \-             100% NACK (-1)^1^
  E-HICH signalling pattern for cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell                                                                                                                                                                                 100% ACK (+1)
  NOTE 1: The Serving E-DCH cell E-HICH power level is set to -16 dB when hybrid ARQ acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 3 consecutive slots and to -23 dB when hybrid ARQ acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 12 consecutive slots.                  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- -------------------

Table 10.2.2.1.2A.2.2: Enhanced performance requirement for Missed ACK
when hybrid ARQ acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 3
consecutive slots -- cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving
E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value                                            

                                         E-HICH\           *Î~or1~/I~oc~* and *Î~or2~/I~oc~* (dB)   Missed ACK probability
                                         (dB)                                                       

  1             VA30                     -20.6             0                                        0.05
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 10.2.2.

###### 10.2.2.1.2A.3 Test Purpose

NOTE: Through all the text below including clause 10.2.2.1.2.5 the
following abbreviation holds: Cell 1: cell belonging to RLS containing
the Serving E-DCH cell, Cell 2: cell belonging to RLS not containing the
Serving E-DCH cell

To verify that during an inter-cell soft handover for cell 2 the average
probability for missed ACK, when E-HICH is transmitted using 3
consecutive slots, does not exceed specified values.

###### 10.2.2.1.2A.4 Method of test

####### 10.2.2.1.2A.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS and AWGN noise source and fading simulators to the UE
antenna connector as shown in Figure A.24 for UEs that support receive
diversity or figure A.11 for UEs that do not support receive diversity..

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel parameters are defined in Annex
C.11

3\) Set the test parameters for the missed ACK test as specified in
table 10.2.2.1.2A.5.1 and 10.2.2.1.2A.5.2 and table E.5A.3 with the
exception of *Î~or2~* that shall be set to -∞.. Set the fading
conditions to VA 30

4\) The value of Absolute Grant Scope shall be set to 0 and the Absolute
Grant shall be set to 3.

5\) The relative grant is not configured. This ensures that the UL
datarate remains constant.

6\) The UE is switched on.

7\) Enter the UE into loopback mode 1, looping back both the 12.2kbps
RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH, and start the loopback test. See TS 34.108 \[3\]
clause 7.3.9 and TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6. To fill
the RLC transmit buffer, run the loopback for \[3\]s before starting the
procedure.

8\) Set *Î~or2~* according to tables 10.2.2.1.2A.5.1 to 10.2.2.1.2A.5.2.
The downlink DPCH of cell 2 must remain inactivated.

9\) UE shall transmit a MEASUREMENT REPORT message triggered by event 1A
containing the CFN-SFN time difference between cell 1 and cell 2.

10\) The downlink DPCH of cell 2 shall be activated.

11\) SS shall send an ACTIVE SET UPDATE message, adding cell 2 to the
active set.

12\) The fading simulators are switched on.

####### 10.2.2.1.2A.4.2 Procedure

NOTE: The measurement principle for the missed ACK test (step 2 to 5) is
as follows. Upon the UE transmission on E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH, the SS
responds with E-HICH = ACK on the cell 2 and with E-HICH = NACK on the
cell 1. The UE transmits new data or retransmissions on the
corresponding E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH. The SS shall discriminate between:

\(1\) new data is a sign for ACK, received by the UE from any of the
cells

\(2\) retransmission is a sign for NACK received by the UE on both
cells.

1\. The Nominal Avg. Information Bit Rate in the DL is set to 534 kbps
according to QPSK H-Set 1. The expected thoughput under this level and
fading conditions is tested with a single cell in clause 9.2.1, but the
DL throughput for this test case will be less than for the single cell
case because of interference from Cell 2. The DL throughput for this
test case is estimated based on the HSDPA throughput corresponding to
the subtests using \"HS-PDSCH Ec/Ior = -6dB\" condition in 9.2.1A. The
worst case for a conformant UE is 22 kbps. The UL data rate was
configured by signalling AG value 3 on the E-AGCH. The expected UL
datarate is 123.5 kbps corresponding to E-TFC Index 21

2\. In the test Missed ACK the SS responds with 100% NACK (-1) on cell 1
and 100% ACK (1) cell 2.

3\. If the UE indicates on the the E-DPCCH a retransmission, the ACK
from cell 2 was received as NACK by the UE. This is counted as missed
(ACK). If the UE indicates on the E-DPCCH new data, the ACK from cell 2
was received as ACK by the UE. This is counted as correct ACK.

4\. Continue until statistical significance according to Annex F.6.4 is
achieved.

5\. If the number of retransmissions reaches the maximum number of
retransmissions due to several false or missed ACK detections in series,
the first new data on the E-DPDCH with E-DPCCH are not the consequence
of ACK. This case is not counted as sample.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-7 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9.2.1 of 34.108 \[3\] with the
following exceptions:

##### RADIO BEARER SETUP: {#radio-bearer-setup-7 .H6}

  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------
  Information Element                                  Value/remark
  -RLC PDU size                                        112
  \- E-DCH Transmission Time                           2ms
  E-DCH MAC-d flow maximum number of retransmissions   15 (max)
  E-DCH info                                           
  \- Happy bit delay condition                         2ms
  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------

##### ACTIVE SET UPDATE message: {#active-set-update-message-3 .H6}

  ----------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------
  Information Element/Group name                  Value/Remark                                                                                                                                                         Version
  Message Type (10.2.17)                                                                                                                                                                                               
  UE information elements                                                                                                                                                                                              
  \- RRC transaction identifier                   0                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Integrity check info                                                                                                                                                                                              
  -message authentication code                    SS calculates the value of MAC-I for this message and writes to this IE. The first/ leftmost bit of the bit string contains the most significant bit of the MAC-I.   
  -RRC message sequence number                    SS provides the value of this IE, from its internal counter.                                                                                                         
  \- Activation time                              \"now\".                                                                                                                                                             
  \- New U-RNTI                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- New H-RNTI                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  \- New Primary E-RNTI                           Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  \- New Secondary E-RNTI                         Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  CN information elements                                                                                                                                                                                              
  \- CN Information info                          Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  Phy CH information elements                                                                                                                                                                                          
  Uplink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                               
  \- Maximum allowed UL TX power                  33 dBm                                                                                                                                                               
  Downlink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                             
  \- Radio link addition information              1                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Radio link addition information                                                                                                                                                                                   
  \- Primary CPICH info                                                                                                                                                                                                
  \- Primary scrambling code                      Same as adding cell                                                                                                                                                  
  \- Downlink DPCH info for each RL                                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- CHOICE mode                                  FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  \- Primary CPICH usage for channel estimation   Primary CPICH may be used                                                                                                                                            
  \- DPCH frame offset                            This should be reflected by the IE\" Cell synchronisation information\" in received MEASUREMENT REPORT message                                                       
  \- Secondary CPICH info                         Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- DL channelisation code                                                                                                                                                                                            
  \- Secondary scrambling code                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- Spreading factor                             128                                                                                                                                                                  
  \- Code number                                  96                                                                                                                                                                   
  \- Scrambling code change                       No code change                                                                                                                                                       
  \- TPC combination index                        1                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Closed loop timing adjustment mode           Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- Downlink F-DPCH info for each RL             Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  E-HICH Information                                                                                                                                                                                                   Rel-6
  \- Channelisation Code                          6                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Signature Sequence                           1                                                                                                                                                                    
  E-RGCH Information                              Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  \- Radio link removal information               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- TX Diversity Mode                            Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  Serving HS-DSCH cell information                Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  E-DCH reconfiguration information               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  ----------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------

###### 10.2.2.1.2A.5 Test Requirements

For table 10.2.2.1.2A.5.1, the average downlink E- HICH E~c~/I~or~ power
ratio shall be below the specified value for missed ACK probability in
Table 10.2.2.1.2A.5.2

Table 10.2.2.1.2A.5.1: Requirement scenario parameters for E-HICH --
cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- -------------------
  Parameter Note 1                                                                                                                                  Unit           Missed ACK
  ![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}                                                                dBm/3.84 MHz   -60
  Phase reference                                                                                                                                   \-             P-CPICH
  E-HICH~1~                                                                                                                                         dB             -15.9
  E-HICH~2~                                                                                                                                         dB             -20.5 (test 1)
  HS-DPSCH~1~                                                                                                                                       dB             -3.00(test 1)
  E-HICH signalling pattern for the Serving E-DCH cell                                                                                              \-             100% NACK (-1)^1^
  E-HICH signalling pattern for cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell                                                                        100% ACK (+1)
  NOTE 1: Index 1: cell belonging to RLS containing the Serving E-DCH cell, Index 2: cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell.                  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- -------------------

Table 10.2.2.1.2A.5.2 Test requirement Type 1 for Missed ACK when hybrid
ARQ acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 3 consecutive slots
-- cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value                                            

                                         E-HICH\           *Î~or1~/I~oc~* and *Î~or2~/I~oc~* (dB)   Missed ACK probability
                                         (dB)                                                       

  1             VA30                     -20.5             0.6                                      0.05
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------

To pass the test,

The ratio (missed (ACK) / all valid ACKs, sent) \<= 0.05

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

#### 10.2.2.2 RLS containing the Serving E-DCH cell

##### 10.2.2.2.1 RLS containing the Serving E-DCH cell (10ms TTI)

###### 10.2.2.2.1.1 Definition and applicability

The receive characteristics of the E-DCH HARQ ACK Indicator Channel
(E-HICH) is determined during an inter-cell soft handover by the missed
ACK and false ACK error probabilities. During the soft handover a UE
receives signals from different cells. A UE has to be able to detect
E-HICH signalling from different cells belonging to different RLS,
containing the Serving E-DCH cell.

The requirements and this test apply to Release 6 and later releases for
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support E-DCH and HSDPA.

###### 10.2.2.2.1.2 Minimum requirement

For the parameters specified in Table 10.2.2.2.1.2.1 the average
downlink E-HICH E~c~/I~or~ power ratio of cell belonging to RLS
containing the Serving E-DCH cell shall be below the specified value for
the missed ACK probabilities in Table 10.2.2.2.1.2.2. For the parameters
specified in Table 10.2.2.2.1.2.1 the false ACK probability shall be
below the specified value in Table 10.2.2.2.1.2.3

Table 10.2.2.2.1.2.1: Requirement scenario parameters for E-HICH -- RLS
containing the serving cell in SHO

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- --------------- ---------------
  Parameter                                                                                   Unit           Missed ACK      False ACK
  ![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}          dBm/3.84 MHz   -60             
  Phase reference                                                                             \-             P-CPICH         
  P-CPICH (\*)                                                                                dB             -10             
  E-HICH signalling pattern for Serving E-DCH cell                                            \-             100% ACK (+1)   100% DTX (0)
  E-HICH signalling pattern for cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell                  100% NACK (0)   100% NACK (0)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- --------------- ---------------

Table 10.2.2.2.1.2.2: Minimum requirement for Missed ACK when hybrid ARQ
acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 12 consecutive slots --
RLS containing the Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value                                                              

                                         E-HICH\                             *Î~or1~/I~oc~* and *Î~or2~/I~oc~* (dB)   Missed ACK probability
                                         (dB) for Serving E-DCH cell (ACK)                                            

  1             VA30                     -29.7                               0                                        0.05
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------

Table 10.2.2.2.1.2.3: Minimum requirement for False ACK when hybrid ARQ
acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 12 consecutive slots --
RLS containing the Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ---------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value                          
                                         *Î~or1~/I~oc~* and *Î~or2~/I~oc~* (dB)   False ACK probability
  2             PA3                      0                                        0.1
  3             VA120                    0                                        0.1
  ------------- ------------------------ ---------------------------------------- -----------------------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 10.2.2.1

###### 10.2.2.2.1.3 Test purpose

NOTE: Through all the text below including clause 10.2.2.2.5 the
following abbreviation holds: Cell 1: cell belonging to RLS containing
the Serving E-DCH cell, Cell 2: cell belonging to RLS not containing the
Serving E-DCH cell

To verify that during an inter-cell soft handover for cell 1 the average
probability for missed ACK and the average probability for false ACK,
when E-HICH is transmitted using 12 consecutive slots, does not exceed
specified values.

###### 10.2.2.2.1.4 Method of test

####### 10.2.2.2.1.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS and AWGN noise source and fading simulators to the UE
antenna connector as shown in figure Figure A.11.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel parameters are defined in Annex
C.11.

3\) Set the test parameters for the missed ACK and false ACK test as
specified in table 10.2.2.2.1.5.1 to 10.2.2.2.1.5.3 and table E.5A.3,
with the exception of *Î~or2~* that shall be set to -∞. Set the fading
conditions to VA 30, PA 3 or VA 120

4\) The value of Absolute Grant Scope shall be set to 0 and the Absolute
Grant shall be set to 5.

5\) The relative grant is not configured. This ensures that the UL
datarate remains constant.

6\) The UE is switched on.

7\) Enter the UE into loopback mode 1, looping back both the 12.2kbps
RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH, and start the loopback test. See TS 34.108 \[3\]
clause 7.3.9 and TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6. To fill
the RLC transmit buffer, run the loopback for \[3\]s before starting the
procedure.

8\) Reset *Î~or2~* according to tables 10.2.2.2.1.5.2 to 10.2.2.2.1.5.3.
The downlink DPCH of cell 2 must remain inactivated.

9\) UE shall transmit a MEASUREMENT REPORT message triggered by event 1A
containing the CFN-SFN time difference between cell 1 and cell 2.

10\) The downlink DPCH of cell 2 shall be activated.

11\) The SS shall send an ACTIVE SET UPDATE message, adding cell 2 to
the active set.

12\) The fading simulators are switched on.

####### 10.2.2.2.1.4.2 Procedure

NOTE: The measurement principle for the missed ACK test (step 3 to 5)
and for the false ACK test (step 6 to 9) is as follows. Upon the UE
transmission on E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH, the SS responds with E-HICH = ACK
or DTX on cell 1 and with NACK (DTX) on cell 2. The UE transmits new
data or retransmissions on the corresponding E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH. The SS
shall discriminate between:

\(1\) new data is a sign for ACK, received by the UE from any of the
cells.

\(2\) retransmission is a sign for NACK received by the UE on both
cells. DTX, received by the UE from cell 1, is interpreted as NACK by
higher layer and causes retransmission.

1\. The Nominal Avg. Information Bit Rate in the DL is set to 534 kbps
according to QPSK H-Set 1. The expected thoughput under this level and
fading conditions is tested with a single cell in clause 9.2.1, and the
DL throughput for this test case will be less than for the single cell
case because of interference from Cell 2. The DL throughput for this
test case is estimated based on the HSDPA throughput corresponding to
the subtests using \"HS-PDSCH Ec/Ior = -6dB\" condition in 9.2.1A.The UL
data rate was configured by by signalling AG value 5 on the E-AGCH. The
expected UL datarate is 71.6 kbps corresponding to E-TFC Index 45.

2\. In the test Missed ACK the SS responds with 100% ACK(1) on cell 1
and 100% NACK(0) on cell 2.

3\. If the UE indicates on the the E-DPCCH a retransmission, the ACK
from cell 1 was received as NACK by the UE. This is counted as
missed(ACK).

If the UE indicates on the the E-DPCCH new data, the ACK from cell 1 was
received as ACK by the UE. This is counted as correct ACK.

4\. Continue until statistical significance according to Annex F.6.4 is
achieved.

5\. If the number of retransmissions reaches the maximum number of
retransmissions due to several false or missed ACK detections in series,
the first new data on the E-DPDCH with E-DPCCH are not the consequence
of ACK. This case is not counted as sample.

6\. In the test false ACK the SS responds with 100% DTX (0) on cell 1
and with 100% NACK(0) on cell 2.

7\. If the UE indicates on the E-DPCCH new data, the DTX from cell 1 was
received as ACK by the UE. This is counted as false(ACK).

NOTE: An ACK reception from cell 2 also causes new data. However, the
probability for this event is \< 2E-4 according to Table 10.2.2.1.1.5.3

If the UE indicates on the E-DPCCH retransmission, then DTX or NACK was
received by the UE from cell 1. This is counted as correct reception.

8\. Continue until statistical significance according to Annex F.6.4 is
achieved.

9\. The number of retransmissions will reach the maximum number of
retransmissions due to several retransmissions in series. The first new
data on the E-DPDCH with E-DPCCH are not the consequence of ACK received
by the UE. This case is not counted as sample.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-8 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9.2.1 of 34.108 \[3\] with the
following exceptions:

##### RADIO BEARER SETUP: {#radio-bearer-setup-8 .H6}

  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------
  Information Element                                  Value/remark
  \- RLC PDU size                                      112
  \- E-DCH Transmission Time                           10 ms
  E-DCH MAC-d flow maximum number of retransmissions   15 (max)
  E-DCH info                                           
  \- Happy bit delay condition                         10 ms
  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------

##### ACTIVE SET UPDATE message: {#active-set-update-message-4 .H6}

  ----------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------
  Information Element/Group name                  Value/Remark                                                                                                                                                         Version
  Message Type (10.2.17)                                                                                                                                                                                               
  UE information elements                                                                                                                                                                                              
  \- RRC transaction identifier                   0                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Integrity check info                                                                                                                                                                                              
  -message authentication code                    SS calculates the value of MAC-I for this message and writes to this IE. The first/ leftmost bit of the bit string contains the most significant bit of the MAC-I.   
  -RRC message sequence number                    SS provides the value of this IE, from its internal counter.                                                                                                         
  \- Activation time                              \"now\".                                                                                                                                                             
  \- New U-RNTI                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- New H-RNTI                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  \- New Primary E-RNTI                           Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  \- New Secondary E-RNTI                         Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  CN information elements                                                                                                                                                                                              
  \- CN Information info                          Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  Phy CH information elements                                                                                                                                                                                          
  Uplink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                               
  \- Maximum allowed UL TX power                  33 dBm                                                                                                                                                               
  Downlink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                             
  \- Radio link addition information              1                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Radio link addition information                                                                                                                                                                                   
  \- Primary CPICH info                                                                                                                                                                                                
  \- Primary scrambling code                      Same as adding cell                                                                                                                                                  
  \- Downlink DPCH info for each RL                                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- CHOICE mode                                  FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  \- Primary CPICH usage for channel estimation   Primary CPICH may be used                                                                                                                                            
  \- DPCH frame offset                            This should be reflected by the IE\" Cell synchronisation information\" in received MEASUREMENT REPORT message                                                       
  \- Secondary CPICH info                         Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- DL channelisation code                                                                                                                                                                                            
  \- Secondary scrambling code                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- Spreading factor                             128                                                                                                                                                                  
  \- Code number                                  96                                                                                                                                                                   
  \- Scrambling code change                       No code change                                                                                                                                                       
  \- TPC combination index                        1                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Closed loop timing adjustment mode           Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- Downlink F-DPCH info for each RL             Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  E-HICH Information                                                                                                                                                                                                   Rel-6
  \- Channelisation Code                          6                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Signature Sequence                           1                                                                                                                                                                    
  E-RGCH Information                              Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  \- Radio link removal information               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- TX Diversity Mode                            Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  Serving HS-DSCH cell information                Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  E-DCH reconfiguration information               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  ----------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------

###### 10.2.2.2.1.5 Test requirements

For table 10.2.2.2.1.5.1, the average downlink E- HICH E~c~/I~or~ power
ratio shall be below the specified value for missed ACK probability in
Table 10.2.2.2.1.5.2. For table 10.2.2.2.5.1, the false ACK probability
shall be below the specified value in Table 10.2.2.2.1.5.3.

Table 10.2.2.2.1.5.1: Requirement scenario parameters for E-HICH -- RLS
containing the serving cell in SHO

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------------- -----------------
  Parameter                                                                                   Unit           Missed ACK       False ACK
  ![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}          dBm/3.84 MHz   -60              
  Phase reference                                                                             \-             P-CPICH          
  E-HICH~1~                                                                                   dB             -29.6 (test 1)   -∞ (test2,3)
  E-HICH~2~                                                                                   dB             -∞               
  HS-DPSCH~1~                                                                                 dB             -2.9(test 1)     -2.9 (test,2.3)
  E-HICH signalling pattern for Serving E-DCH cell                                            \-             100% ACK (+1)    100% DTX (0)
  E-HICH signalling pattern for cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell                  100% NACK (0)    100% NACK (0)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------------- -----------------

Table 10.2.2.2.1.5.2: Test requirement for Missed ACK when hybrid ARQ
acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 12 consecutive slots --
RLS containing the Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value                                                              

                                         E-HICH\                             *Î~or1~/I~oc~* and *Î~or2~/I~oc~* (dB)   Missed ACK probability
                                         (dB) for Serving E-DCH cell (ACK)                                            

  1             VA30                     -29.6                               0.6                                      0.05
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------

Table 10.2.2.2.1.5.3: Test requirement for False ACK when hybrid ARQ
acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 12 consecutive slots --
RLS containing the Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ---------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value                          
                                         *Î~or1~/I~oc~* and *Î~or2~/I~oc~* (dB)   False ACK probability
  2             PA3                      0.6                                      0.1
  3             VA120                    0.6                                      0.1
  ------------- ------------------------ ---------------------------------------- -----------------------

To pass the test,

The ratio (missed (ACK) / all valid ACKs, sent) ≤ 0.05 and

The ratio (false (ACK) /(all valid samples)) ≤ 0.1

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

##### 10.2.2.2.1A RLS containing the Serving E-DCH cell (10ms TTI, Type 1)

###### 10.2.2.2.1A.1 Definition and applicability

The receive characteristics of the E-DCH HARQ ACK Indicator Channel
(E-HICH) is determined during an inter-cell soft handover by the missed
ACK probabilities. During the soft handover a UE receives signals from
different cells. A UE has to be able to detect E-HICH signalling from
different cells belonging to different RLS, containing the Serving E-DCH
cell.

The requirements and this test apply to Release 7 and later releases for
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support E-DCH and HSDPA and the
optional Type 1 enhanced performance requirements.

###### 10.2.2.2.1A.2 Minimum requirement

For the parameters specified in Table 10.2.2.2.1A.2.1 the average
downlink E-HICH E~c~/I~or~ power ratio of cell belonging to RLS
containing the Serving E-DCH cell shall be below the specified value for
the missed ACK probabilities in Table 10.2.2.2.1A.2.2.

Table 10.2.2.2.1A.2.1: Requirement scenario parameters for E-HICH -- RLS
containing the serving cell in SHO

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------------
  Parameter                                                                                   Unit           Missed ACK
  ![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}          dBm/3.84 MHz   -60
  Phase reference                                                                             \-             P-CPICH
  P-CPICH (\*)                                                                                dB             -10
  E-HICH signalling pattern for Serving E-DCH cell                                            \-             100% ACK (+1)
  E-HICH signalling pattern for cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell                  100% NACK (0)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------------

Table 10.2.2.2.1A.2.2: Enhanced performance requirement for Missed ACK
when hybrid ARQ acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 12
consecutive slots -- RLS containing the Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value                                                              

                                         E-HICH\                             *Î~or1~/I~oc~* and *Î~or2~/I~oc~* (dB)   Missed ACK probability
                                         (dB) for Serving E-DCH cell (ACK)                                            

  1             VA30                     -33.4                               0                                        0.05
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 10.2.2.1

###### 10.2.2.2.1A.3 Test purpose

NOTE: Through all the text below including clause 10.2.2.2.5 the
following abbreviation holds: Cell 1: cell belonging to RLS containing
the Serving E-DCH cell, Cell 2: cell belonging to RLS not containing the
Serving E-DCH cell

To verify that during an inter-cell soft handover for cell 1 the average
probability for missed ACK, when E-HICH is transmitted using 12
consecutive slots, does not exceed specified values.

###### 10.2.2.2.1A.4 Method of test

####### 10.2.2.2.1A.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS and AWGN noise source and fading simulators to the UE
antenna connector as shown in figure Figure A.24 for UEs that support
receive diversity or figure A.11 for UEs that do not support receive
diversity.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel parameters are defined in Annex
C.11

3\) Set the test parameters for the missed ACK test as specified in
table 10.2.2.2.1A.5.1 and 10.2.2.2.1A.5.2 and table E.5A.3 with the
exception of *Î~or2~* that shall be set to -∞. Set the fading conditions
to VA 30.

4\) The value of Absolute Grant Scope shall be set to 0 and the Absolute
Grant shall be set to 5.

5\) The relative grant is not configured. This ensures that the UL
datarate remains constant.

6\) The UE is switched on.

7\) Enter the UE into loopback mode 1, looping back both the 12.2kbps
RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH, and start the loopback test. See TS 34.108 \[3\]
clause 7.3.9 and TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6. To fill
the RLC transmit buffer, run the loopback for \[3\]s before starting the
procedure.

8\) Reset *Î~or2~* according to tables 10.2.2.2.1A.5.1 to
10.2.2.2.1A.5.2. The downlink DPCH of cell 2 must remain inactivated.

9\) UE shall transmit a MEASUREMENT REPORT message triggered by event 1A
containing the CFN-SFN time difference between cell 1 and cell 2.

10\) The downlink DPCH of cell 2 shall be activated.

11\) The SS shall send an ACTIVE SET UPDATE message, adding cell 2 to
the active set.

12\) The fading simulators are switched on.

####### 10.2.2.2.1A.4.2 Procedure

NOTE: The measurement principle for the missed ACK test (step 3 to 5) is
as follows. Upon the UE transmission on E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH, the SS
responds with E-HICH = ACK on cell 1 and with NACK (DTX) on cell 2. The
UE transmits new data or retransmissions on the corresponding E-DPCCH
and E-DPDCH. The SS shall discriminate between:

\(1\) new data is a sign for ACK, received by the UE from any of the
cells.

\(2\) retransmission is a sign for NACK received by the UE on both
cells. DTX, received by the UE from cell 1, is interpreted as NACK by
higher layer and causes retransmission.

1\. The Nominal Avg. Information Bit Rate in the DL is set to 534 kbps
according to QPSK H-Set 1. The expected thoughput under this level and
fading conditions is tested with a single cell in clause 9.2.1 and the
DL throughput for this test case will be less than for the single cell
case because of interference from Cell 2. The DL throughput for this
test case is estimated based on the HSDPA throughput corresponding to
the subtests using \"HS-PDSCH Ec/Ior = -6dB\" condition in 9.2.1A.The UL
data rate was configured by by signalling AG value 5 on the E-AGCH. The
expected UL datarate is 71.6 kbps corresponding to E-TFC Index 45.

2\. In the test Missed ACK the SS responds with 100% ACK(1) on cell 1
and 100% NACK(0) on cell 2.

3\. If the UE indicates on the the E-DPCCH a retransmission, the ACK
from cell 1 was received as NACK by the UE. This is counted as
missed(ACK).

If the UE indicates on the the E-DPCCH new data, the ACK from cell 1 was
received as ACK by the UE. This is counted as correct ACK.

4\. Continue until statistical significance according to Annex F.6.4 is
achieved.

5\. If the number of retransmissions reaches the maximum number of
retransmissions due to several false or missed ACK detections in series,
the first new data on the E-DPDCH with E-DPCCH are not the consequence
of ACK. This case is not counted as sample.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-9 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9.2.1 of 34.108 \[3\] with the
following exceptions:

##### RADIO BEARER SETUP: {#radio-bearer-setup-9 .H6}

  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------
  Information Element                                  Value/remark
  \- RLC PDU size                                      112
  \- E-DCH Transmission Time                           10 ms
  E-DCH MAC-d flow maximum number of retransmissions   15 (max)
  E-DCH info                                           
  \- Happy bit delay condition                         10 ms
  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------

##### ACTIVE SET UPDATE message: {#active-set-update-message-5 .H6}

  ----------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------
  Information Element/Group name                  Value/Remark                                                                                                                                                         Version
  Message Type (10.2.17)                                                                                                                                                                                               
  UE information elements                                                                                                                                                                                              
  \- RRC transaction identifier                   0                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Integrity check info                                                                                                                                                                                              
  -message authentication code                    SS calculates the value of MAC-I for this message and writes to this IE. The first/ leftmost bit of the bit string contains the most significant bit of the MAC-I.   
  -RRC message sequence number                    SS provides the value of this IE, from its internal counter.                                                                                                         
  \- Activation time                              \"now\".                                                                                                                                                             
  \- New U-RNTI                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- New H-RNTI                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  \- New Primary E-RNTI                           Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  \- New Secondary E-RNTI                         Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  CN information elements                                                                                                                                                                                              
  \- CN Information info                          Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  Phy CH information elements                                                                                                                                                                                          
  Uplink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                               
  \- Maximum allowed UL TX power                  33 dBm                                                                                                                                                               
  Downlink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                             
  \- Radio link addition information              1                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Radio link addition information                                                                                                                                                                                   
  \- Primary CPICH info                                                                                                                                                                                                
  \- Primary scrambling code                      Same as adding cell                                                                                                                                                  
  \- Downlink DPCH info for each RL                                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- CHOICE mode                                  FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  \- Primary CPICH usage for channel estimation   Primary CPICH may be used                                                                                                                                            
  \- DPCH frame offset                            This should be reflected by the IE\" Cell synchronisation information\" in received MEASUREMENT REPORT message                                                       
  \- Secondary CPICH info                         Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- DL channelisation code                                                                                                                                                                                            
  \- Secondary scrambling code                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- Spreading factor                             128                                                                                                                                                                  
  \- Code number                                  96                                                                                                                                                                   
  \- Scrambling code change                       No code change                                                                                                                                                       
  \- TPC combination index                        1                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Closed loop timing adjustment mode           Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- Downlink F-DPCH info for each RL             Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  E-HICH Information                                                                                                                                                                                                   Rel-6
  \- Channelisation Code                          6                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Signature Sequence                           1                                                                                                                                                                    
  E-RGCH Information                              Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  \- Radio link removal information               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- TX Diversity Mode                            Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  Serving HS-DSCH cell information                Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  E-DCH reconfiguration information               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  ----------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------

###### 10.2.2.2.1A.5 Test requirements

For table 10.2.2.2.1A.5.1, the average downlink E- HICH E~c~/I~or~ power
ratio shall be below the specified value for missed ACK probability in
Table 10.2.2.2.1A.5.2

Table 10.2.2.2.1A.5.1: Requirement scenario parameters for E-HICH -- RLS
containing the serving cell in SHO

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ----------------
  Parameter                                                                                   Unit           Missed ACK
  ![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}          dBm/3.84 MHz   -60
  Phase reference                                                                             \-             P-CPICH
  E-HICH~1~                                                                                   dB             -33.3 (test 1)
  E-HICH~2~                                                                                   dB             -∞
  HS-DPSCH~1~                                                                                 dB             -2.9(test 1)
  E-HICH signalling pattern for Serving E-DCH cell                                            \-             100% ACK (+1)
  E-HICH signalling pattern for cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell                  100% NACK (0)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ----------------

Table 10.2.2.2.1A.5.2: Test requirement Type 1 for Missed ACK when
hybrid ARQ acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 12 consecutive
slots -- RLS containing the Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value                                                              

                                         E-HICH\                             *Î~or1~/I~oc~* and *Î~or2~/I~oc~* (dB)   Missed ACK probability
                                         (dB) for Serving E-DCH cell (ACK)                                            

  1             VA30                     -33.3                               0.6                                      0.05
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------

To pass the test,

The ratio (missed (ACK) / all valid ACKs, sent) ≤ 0.05

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

##### 10.2.2.2.2 RLS containing the Serving E-DCH cell (2ms TTI)

###### 10.2.2.2.2.1 Definition and applicability

The receive characteristics of the E-DCH HARQ ACK Indicator Channel
(E-HICH) is determined during an inter-cell soft handover by the missed
ACK and false ACK error probabilities. During the soft handover a UE
receives signals from different cells. A UE has to be able to detect
E-HICH signalling from different cells belonging to different RLS,
containing the Serving E-DCH cell.

The requirements and this test apply to Release 6 and later releases for
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support E-DCH with 2ms TTI and
HSDPA.

###### 10.2.2.2.2.2 Minimum requirement

For the parameters specified in Table 10.2.2.2.2.2.1 the average
downlink E-HICH E~c~/I~or~ power ratio of cell belonging to RLS
containing the Serving E-DCH cell shall be below the specified value for
the missed ACK probabilities in Table 10.2.2.2.22..2. For the parameters
specified in Table 10.2.2.2.2.2.1 the false ACK probability shall be
below the specified value in Table 10.2.2.2.2.2.3

Table 10.2.2.2.2.2.1: Requirement scenario parameters for E-HICH -- RLS
containing the serving cell in SHO

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- --------------- ---------------
  Parameter                                                                                   Unit           Missed ACK      False ACK
  ![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}          dBm/3.84 MHz   -60             
  Phase reference                                                                             \-             P-CPICH         
  P-CPICH (\*)                                                                                dB             -10             
  E-HICH signalling pattern for Serving E-DCH cell                                            \-             100% ACK (+1)   100% DTX (0)
  E-HICH signalling pattern for cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell                  100% NACK (0)   100% NACK (0)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- --------------- ---------------

Table 10.2.2.2.2.2.2: Minimum requirement for Missed ACK when hybrid ARQ
acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 3 consecutive slots --
RLS containing the Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value                                                              

                                         E-HICH\                             *Î~or1~/I~oc~* and *Î~or2~/I~oc~* (dB)   Missed ACK probability
                                         (dB) for Serving E-DCH cell (ACK)                                            

  1             VA30                     -23.2                               0                                        0.05
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------

Table 10.2.2.2.2.2.3: Minimum requirement for False ACK when hybrid ARQ
acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 3 consecutive slots --
RLS containing the Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ---------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value                          
                                         *Î~or1~/I~oc~* and *Î~or2~/I~oc~* (dB)   False ACK probability
  2             PA3                      0                                        0.1
  3             VA120                    0                                        0.1
  ------------- ------------------------ ---------------------------------------- -----------------------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 10.2.2.1

###### 10.2.2.2.2.3 Test purpose

NOTE: Through all the text below including clause 10.2.2.2.5 the
following abbreviation holds: Cell 1: cell belonging to RLS containing
the Serving E-DCH cell, Cell 2: cell belonging to RLS not containing the
Serving E-DCH cell

To verify that during an inter-cell soft handover for cell 1 the average
probability for missed ACK and the average probability for false ACK,
when E-HICH is transmitted using 3 consecutive slots, does not exceed
specified values.

###### 10.2.2.2.2.4 Method of test

####### 10.2.2.2.2.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS and AWGN noise source and fading simulators to the UE
antenna connector as shown in figure Figure A.11.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel parameters are defined in Annex
C.11.

3\) Set the test parameters for the missed ACK and false ACK test as
specified in table 10.2.2.2.2.5.1 to 10.2.2.2.2.5.3 and table E.5A.3,
with the exception of *Î~or2~* that shall be set to -∞. Set the fading
conditions to VA 30, PA3 or VA 120.

4\) The value of Absolute Grant Scope shall be set to 0, and the
Absolute Grant shall be set to 3.

5\) The relative grant is not configured. This ensures that the UL
datarate remains constant.

6\) The UE is switched on.

7\) Enter the UE into loopback mode 1, looping back both the 12.2kbps
RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH, and start the loopback test. See TS 34.108 \[3\]
clause 7.3.9 and TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6. To fill
the RLC transmit buffer, run the loopback for \[3\]s before starting the
procedure.

8\) Reset *Î~or2~* according to tables 10.2.2.2.2.5.2 to 10.2.2.2.2.5.3.
The downlink DPCH of cell 2 must remain inactivated.

9\) UE shall transmit a MEASUREMENT REPORT message triggered by event 1A
containing the CFN-SFN time difference between cell 1 and cell 2.

10\) The downlink DPCH of cell 2 shall be activated.

11\) The SS shall send an ACTIVE SET UPDATE message, adding cell 2 to
the active set.

12\) The fading simulators are switched on.

####### 10.2.2.2.2.4.2 Procedure

NOTE: The measurement principle for the missed ACK test (step 2 to 5)
and for the false ACK test (step 6 to 9) is as follows. Upon the UE
transmission on E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH, the SS responds with E-HICH = ACK
or DTX on cell 1 and with DTX on cell 2. The UE transmits new data or
retransmissions on the corresponding E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH. The SS shall
discriminate between:

\(1\) new data is a sign for ACK, received by the UE from any of the
cells.

\(2\) retransmission is a sign for NACK received by the UE on both
cells. DTX, received by the UE from cell 1, is interpreted as NACK by
higher layer and causes retransmission.

1\. The Nominal Avg. Information Bit Rate in the DL is set to 534 kbps
according to QPSK H-Set 1. The expected thoughput under this level and
fading conditions is tested with a single cell in clause 9.2.1, and the
DL throughput for this test case will be less than for the single cell
case because of interference from Cell 2. The DL throughput for this
test case is estimated based on the HSDPA throughput corresponding to
the subtests using \"HS-PDSCH Ec/Ior = -6dB\" condition in 9.2.1A. The
UL data rate was configured by signalling AG value 3 on the E-AGCH. The
expected UL datarate is 123.5 kbps corresponding to E-TFC Index 21.

2\. In the test Missed ACK the SS responds with 100% ACK(1) on cell 1
and 100% NACK(0) on cell 2.

3\. If the UE indicates on the the E-DPCCH a retransmission, the ACK
from cell 1 was received as NACK by the UE. This is counted as
missed(ACK).

If the UE indicates on the the E-DPCCH new data, the ACK from cell 1 was
received as ACK by the UE. This is counted as correct ACK.

4\. Continue until statistical significance according to Annex F.6.4 is
achieved.

5\. If the number of retransmissions reaches the maximum number of
retransmissions due to several false or missed ACK detections in series,
the first new data on the E-DPDCH with E-DPCCH are not the consequence
of ACK. This case is not counted as sample.

6\. In the test false ACK the SS responds with 100% DTX (0) on cell 1
and with 100% NACK(0) on cell 2.

7\. If the UE indicates on the E-DPCCH new data, the DTX from cell 1 was
received as ACK by the UE. This is counted as false(ACK).

NOTE: An ACK reception from cell 2 also causes new data. However, the
probability for this event is \< 2E-4 according to Table 10.2.2.1.2.2.3:

If the UE indicates on the E-DPCCH retransmission, then DTX or NACK was
received by the UE from cell 1. This is counted as correct reception.

8\. Continue until statistical significance according to Annex F.6.4 is
achieved.

9\. The number of retransmissions will reach the maximum number of
transmissions due to several retransmissions in series. The first new
data on the E-DPDCH with E-DPCCH are not the consequence of ACK received
by the UE. This case is not counted as sample.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-10 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9.2.1 of 34.108 \[3\] with the
following exceptions:

##### RADIO BEARER SETUP: {#radio-bearer-setup-10 .H6}

  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------
  Information Element                                  Value/remark
  \- RLC PDU size                                      112
  \- E-DCH Transmission Time                           2ms
  E-DCH MAC-d flow maximum number of retransmissions   15 (max)
  E-DCH info                                           
  \- Happy bit delay condition                         2ms
  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------

##### ACTIVE SET UPDATE message: {#active-set-update-message-6 .H6}

  ----------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------
  Information Element/Group name                  Value/Remark                                                                                                                                                         Version
  Message Type (10.2.17)                                                                                                                                                                                               
  UE information elements                                                                                                                                                                                              
  \- RRC transaction identifier                   0                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Integrity check info                                                                                                                                                                                              
  -message authentication code                    SS calculates the value of MAC-I for this message and writes to this IE. The first/ leftmost bit of the bit string contains the most significant bit of the MAC-I.   
  -RRC message sequence number                    SS provides the value of this IE, from its internal counter.                                                                                                         
  \- Activation time                              \"now\".                                                                                                                                                             
  \- New U-RNTI                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- New H-RNTI                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  \- New Primary E-RNTI                           Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  \- New Secondary E-RNTI                         Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  CN information elements                                                                                                                                                                                              
  \- CN Information info                          Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  Phy CH information elements                                                                                                                                                                                          
  Uplink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                               
  \- Maximum allowed UL TX power                  33 dBm                                                                                                                                                               
  Downlink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                             
  \- Radio link addition information              1                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Radio link addition information                                                                                                                                                                                   
  \- Primary CPICH info                                                                                                                                                                                                
  \- Primary scrambling code                      Same as adding cell                                                                                                                                                  
  \- Downlink DPCH info for each RL                                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- CHOICE mode                                  FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  \- Primary CPICH usage for channel estimation   Primary CPICH may be used                                                                                                                                            
  \- DPCH frame offset                            This should be reflected by the IE\" Cell synchronisation information\" in received MEASUREMENT REPORT message                                                       
  \- Secondary CPICH info                         Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- DL channelisation code                                                                                                                                                                                            
  \- Secondary scrambling code                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- Spreading factor                             128                                                                                                                                                                  
  \- Code number                                  96                                                                                                                                                                   
  \- Scrambling code change                       No code change                                                                                                                                                       
  \- TPC combination index                        1                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Closed loop timing adjustment mode           Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- Downlink F-DPCH info for each RL             Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  E-HICH Information                                                                                                                                                                                                   Rel-6
  \- Channelisation Code                          6                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Signature Sequence                           1                                                                                                                                                                    
  E-RGCH Information                              Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  \- Radio link removal information               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- TX Diversity Mode                            Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  Serving HS-DSCH cell information                Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  E-DCH reconfiguration information               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  ----------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------

###### 10.2.2.2.2.5 Test requirements

For table 10.2.2.2.2.5.1, the average downlink E- HICH E~c~/I~or~ power
ratio shall be below the specified value for missed ACK probability in
Table 10.2.2.2.2.5.2. For table 10.2.2.2.2.5.1, the false ACK
probability shall be below the specified value in Table 10.2.2.2.2.5.3.

Table 10.2.2.2.2.5.1: Requirement scenario parameters for E-HICH -- RLS
containing the serving cell in SHO

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------------- -----------------
  Parameter                                                                                   Unit           Missed ACK       False ACK
  ![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}          dBm/3.84 MHz   -60              
  Phase reference                                                                             \-             P-CPICH          
  E-HICH~1~                                                                                   dB             -23.1 (test 1)   -∞ (test 2 ,3)
  E-HICH~2~                                                                                   dB             -∞               
  HS-DPSCH~1~                                                                                 dB             -2.9(test 1)     -2.9 (test 2,3)
  E-HICH signalling pattern for Serving E-DCH cell                                            \-             100% ACK (+1)    100% DTX (0)
  E-HICH signalling pattern for cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell                  100% NACK (0)    100% NACK (0)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------------- -----------------

Table 10.2.2.2.2.5.2: Test requirement for Missed ACK when hybrid ARQ
acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 3 consecutive slots --
RLS containing the Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value                                                              

                                         E-HICH\                             *Î~or1~/I~oc~* and *Î~or2~/I~oc~* (dB)   Missed ACK probability
                                         (dB) for Serving E-DCH cell (ACK)                                            

  1             VA30                     -23.1                               0.6                                      0.05
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------

Table 10.2.2.2.2.5.3: Test requirement for False ACK when hybrid ARQ
acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 3 consecutive slots --
RLS containing the Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ---------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value                          
                                         *Î~or1~/I~oc~* and *Î~or2~/I~oc~* (dB)   False ACK probability
  2             PA3                      0.6                                      0.1
  3             VA120                    0.6                                      0.1
  ------------- ------------------------ ---------------------------------------- -----------------------

To pass the test,

The ratio (missed (ACK) / all valid ACKs, sent) ≤ 0.05 and

The ratio (false (ACK) /(all valid samples)) ≤ 0.1

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

##### 10.2.2.2.2A RLS containing the Serving E-DCH cell (2ms TTI, Type 1)

###### 10.2.2.2.2A.1 Definition and applicability

The receive characteristics of the E-DCH HARQ ACK Indicator Channel
(E-HICH) is determined during an inter-cell soft handover by the missed
ACK error probabilities. During the soft handover a UE receives signals
from different cells. A UE has to be able to detect E-HICH signalling
from different cells belonging to different RLS, containing the Serving
E-DCH cell.

The requirements and this test apply to Release 7 and later releases for
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support E-DCH with 2ms TTI and
HSDPA and the optional Type 1 enhanced performance requirements.

###### 10.2.2.2.2A.2 Minimum requirement

For the parameters specified in Table 10.2.2.2.2A.2.1 the average
downlink E-HICH E~c~/I~or~ power ratio of cell belonging to RLS
containing the Serving E-DCH cell shall be below the specified value for
the missed ACK probabilities in Table 10.2.2.2.2A.2.2.

Table 10.2.2.2.2A.2.1: Requirement scenario parameters for E-HICH -- RLS
containing the serving cell in SHO

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------------
  Parameter                                                                                   Unit           Missed ACK
  ![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}          dBm/3.84 MHz   -60
  Phase reference                                                                             \-             P-CPICH
  P-CPICH (\*)                                                                                dB             -10
  E-HICH signalling pattern for Serving E-DCH cell                                            \-             100% ACK (+1)
  E-HICH signalling pattern for cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell                  100% NACK (0)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ---------------

Table 10.2.2.2.2A.2.2: Enhanced performance requirement for Missed ACK
when hybrid ARQ acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 3
consecutive slots -- RLS containing the Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value                                                              

                                         E-HICH\                             *Î~or1~/I~oc~* and *Î~or2~/I~oc~* (dB)   Missed ACK probability
                                         (dB) for Serving E-DCH cell (ACK)                                            

  1             VA30                     -27.1                               0                                        0.05
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 10.2.2.1

###### 10.2.2.2.2A.3 Test purpose

NOTE: Through all the text below including clause 10.2.2.2.5 the
following abbreviation holds: Cell 1: cell belonging to RLS containing
the Serving E-DCH cell, Cell 2: cell belonging to RLS not containing the
Serving E-DCH cell

To verify that during an inter-cell soft handover for cell 1 the average
probability for missed ACK, when E-HICH is transmitted using 3
consecutive slots, does not exceed specified values.

###### 10.2.2.2.2A.4 Method of test

####### 10.2.2.2.2A.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS and AWGN noise source and fading simulators to the UE
antenna connector as shown in figure Figure A.24 for UEs that support
receive diversity or figure A.10 for UEs that do not support receive
diversity.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel parameters are defined in Annex
C.11

3\) Set the test parameters for the missed ACK test as specified in
table 10.2.2.2.2A.5.1 and 10.2.2.2.2A.5.2 and table E.5A.3 with the
exception of *Î~or2~* that shall be set to -∞. Set the fading conditions
to VA 30.

4\) The value of Absolute Grant Scope shall be set to 0, and the
Absolute Grant shall be set to 3.

5\) The relative grant is not configured. This ensures that the UL
datarate remains constant.

6\) The UE is switched on.

7\) Enter the UE into loopback mode 1, looping back both the 12.2kbps
RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH, and start the loopback test. See TS 34.108 \[3\]
clause 7.3.9 and TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6. To fill
the RLC transmit buffer, run the loopback for \[3\]s before starting the
procedure.

8\) Reset *Î~or2~* according to tables 10.2.2.2.2A.5.1 to
10.2.2.2.2A.5.2. The downlink DPCH of cell 2 must remain inactivated.

9\) UE shall transmit a MEASUREMENT REPORT message triggered by event 1A
containing the CFN-SFN time difference between cell 1 and cell 2.

10\) The downlink DPCH of cell 2 shall be activated.

11\) The SS shall send an ACTIVE SET UPDATE message, adding cell 2 to
the active set.

12\) The fading simulators are switched on.

####### 10.2.2.2.2A.4.2 Procedure

NOTE: The measurement principle for the missed ACK test (step 2 to5) is
as follows. Upon the UE transmission on E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH, the SS
responds with E-HICH = ACK on cell 1 and with DTX on cell 2. The UE
transmits new data or retransmissions on the corresponding E-DPCCH and
E-DPDCH. The SS shall discriminate between:

\(1\) new data is a sign for ACK, received by the UE from any of the
cells.

\(2\) retransmission is a sign for NACK received by the UE on both
cells. DTX, received by the UE from cell 1, is interpreted as NACK by
higher layer and causes retransmission.

1\. The Nominal Avg. Information Bit Rate in the DL is set to 534 kbps
according to QPSK H-Set 1. The expected thoughput under this level and
fading conditions is tested with a single cell in clause 9.2.1and the DL
throughput for this test case will be less than for the single cell case
because of interference from Cell 2. The DL throughput for this test
case is estimated based on the HSDPA throughput corresponding to the
subtests using \"HS-PDSCH Ec/Ior = -6dB\" condition in 9.2.1A. The UL
data rate was configured by signalling AG value 3 on the E-AGCH. The
expected UL datarate is 123.5 kbps corresponding to E-TFC Index 21.

2\. In the test Missed ACK the SS responds with 100% ACK(1) on cell 1
and 100% NACK(0) on cell 2.

3\. If the UE indicates on the the E-DPCCH a retransmission, the ACK
from cell 1 was received as NACK by the UE. This is counted as
missed(ACK).

If the UE indicates on the the E-DPCCH new data, the ACK from cell 1 was
received as ACK by the UE. This is counted as correct ACK.

4\. Continue until statistical significance according to Annex F.6.4 is
achieved.

5\. If the number of retransmissions reaches the maximum number of
retransmissions due to several false or missed ACK detections in series,
the first new data on the E-DPDCH with E-DPCCH are not the consequence
of ACK. This case is not counted as sample.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-11 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9.2.1 of 34.108 \[3\] with the
following exceptions:

##### RADIO BEARER SETUP: {#radio-bearer-setup-11 .H6}

  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------
  Information Element                                  Value/remark
  \- RLC PDU size                                      112
  \- E-DCH Transmission Time                           2ms
  E-DCH MAC-d flow maximum number of retransmissions   15 (max)
  E-DCH info                                           
  \- Happy bit delay condition                         2ms
  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------

##### ACTIVE SET UPDATE message: {#active-set-update-message-7 .H6}

  ----------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------
  Information Element/Group name                  Value/Remark                                                                                                                                                         Version
  Message Type (10.2.17)                                                                                                                                                                                               
  UE information elements                                                                                                                                                                                              
  \- RRC transaction identifier                   0                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Integrity check info                                                                                                                                                                                              
  -message authentication code                    SS calculates the value of MAC-I for this message and writes to this IE. The first/ leftmost bit of the bit string contains the most significant bit of the MAC-I.   
  -RRC message sequence number                    SS provides the value of this IE, from its internal counter.                                                                                                         
  \- Activation time                              \"now\".                                                                                                                                                             
  \- New U-RNTI                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- New H-RNTI                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  \- New Primary E-RNTI                           Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  \- New Secondary E-RNTI                         Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  CN information elements                                                                                                                                                                                              
  \- CN Information info                          Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  Phy CH information elements                                                                                                                                                                                          
  Uplink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                               
  \- Maximum allowed UL TX power                  33 dBm                                                                                                                                                               
  Downlink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                             
  \- Radio link addition information              1                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Radio link addition information                                                                                                                                                                                   
  \- Primary CPICH info                                                                                                                                                                                                
  \- Primary scrambling code                      Same as adding cell                                                                                                                                                  
  \- Downlink DPCH info for each RL                                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- CHOICE mode                                  FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  \- Primary CPICH usage for channel estimation   Primary CPICH may be used                                                                                                                                            
  \- DPCH frame offset                            This should be reflected by the IE\" Cell synchronisation information\" in received MEASUREMENT REPORT message                                                       
  \- Secondary CPICH info                         Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- DL channelisation code                                                                                                                                                                                            
  \- Secondary scrambling code                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- Spreading factor                             128                                                                                                                                                                  
  \- Code number                                  96                                                                                                                                                                   
  \- Scrambling code change                       No code change                                                                                                                                                       
  \- TPC combination index                        1                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Closed loop timing adjustment mode           Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- Downlink F-DPCH info for each RL             Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  E-HICH Information                                                                                                                                                                                                   Rel-6
  \- Channelisation Code                          6                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Signature Sequence                           1                                                                                                                                                                    
  E-RGCH Information                              Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  \- Radio link removal information               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- TX Diversity Mode                            Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  Serving HS-DSCH cell information                Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  E-DCH reconfiguration information               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  ----------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------

###### 10.2.2.2.2A.5 Test requirements

For table 10.2.2.2.2A.5.1, the average downlink E- HICH E~c~/I~or~ power
ratio shall be below the specified value for missed ACK probability in
Table 10.2.2.2.2A.5.2.

Table 10.2.2.2.2A.5.1: Requirement scenario parameters for E-HICH -- RLS
containing the serving cell in SHO

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ----------------
  Parameter                                                                                   Unit           Missed ACK
  ![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}          dBm/3.84 MHz   -60
  Phase reference                                                                             \-             P-CPICH
  E-HICH~1~                                                                                   dB             -27.0 (test 1)
  E-HICH~2~                                                                                   dB             -∞
  HS-DPSCH~1~                                                                                 dB             -2.9(test 1)
  E-HICH signalling pattern for Serving E-DCH cell                                            \-             100% ACK (+1)
  E-HICH signalling pattern for cell belonging to RLS not containing the Serving E-DCH cell                  100% NACK (0)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ----------------

Table 10.2.2.2.2A.5.2: Test requirement Type 1 for Missed ACK when
hybrid ARQ acknowledgement indicator is transmitted using 3 consecutive
slots -- RLS containing the Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value                                                              

                                         E-HICH\                             *Î~or1~/I~oc~* and *Î~or2~/I~oc~* (dB)   Missed ACK probability
                                         (dB) for Serving E-DCH cell (ACK)                                            

  1             VA30                     -27.0                               0.6                                      0.05
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------

To pass the test,

The ratio (missed (ACK) / all valid ACKs, sent) ≤ 0.05

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

10.3 Detection of E-DCH Relative Grant Channel (E-RGCH)
-------------------------------------------------------

### 10.3.1 Single link performance

#### 10.3.1.1 Single link performance (10ms TTI)

##### 10.3.1.1.1 Definition and applicability

The receive characteristics of the E-DCH Relative Grant Channel (E-RGCH)
in multi-path fading environment is determined by the missed UP/DOWN and
missed HOLD. The requirements and this test apply to Release 6 and later
releases for all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support E-DCH and
HSDPA.

NOTE: The fail cases for Up are Down (erroneous detection) and Hold
(missed detection).

The fail cases for Down are Up and Hold. TS 25.101 designated this test
\"Missed Up/Down\". It is assumed that the minimum requirements apply
for both fail cases erroneous and missed detection.

##### 10.3.1.1.2 Minimum requirement

For the parameters specified in Table 10.3.1.1.2.1 the average downlink
E-RGCH E~c~/I~or~ power ratio shall be below the specified value for the
missed UP/DOWN probabilities in Table 10.3.1.1.2.2. For the parameters
specified in Table 10.3.1.1.2.1 the missed HOLD probability shall be
below the specified value in Table 10.3.1.1.2.

Table 10.3.1.1.2.1: Parameters for E-RGCH -- Serving E-DCH cell

+------------------+--------------+----------------+-------------+
| Parameter        | Unit         | Missed UP/DOWN | Missed HOLD |
+------------------+--------------+----------------+-------------+
| ![               | dBm/3.84 MHz | -60            |             |
| ](media/image1.w |              |                |             |
| mf){width="0.222 |              |                |             |
| 2222222222222in" |              |                |             |
| height="0.20833  |              |                |             |
| 333333333334in"} |              |                |             |
+------------------+--------------+----------------+-------------+
| Phase reference  | \-           | P-CPICH        |             |
+------------------+--------------+----------------+-------------+
| P-CPICH          | dB           | -10            |             |
+------------------+--------------+----------------+-------------+
| E-RGCH           | \-           | 50% UP         | 100% HOLD   |
| signalling       |              |                |             |
| pattern          |              | 50% DOWN       |             |
+------------------+--------------+----------------+-------------+

Table 10.3.1.1.2.2: Minimum requirement for Missed UP/DOWN when relative
scheduling grant is transmitted using 12 consecutive slots -- Serving
E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ----------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value          

                                         E-RGCH\           (dB)   Missed UP/DOWN probability
                                         (dB)                     

  1             VA30                     -31               0      0.05/0.05
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ----------------------------

Table 10.3.1.1.2.3: Minimum requirement for Missed HOLD when relative
scheduling grant is transmitted using 12 consecutive slots -- Serving
E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- -------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value   
                                         (dB)              Missed HOLD probability
  2             VA30                     0                 0.1
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- -------------------------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 10.3.1

##### 10.3.1.1.3 Test purpose

To verify that average probability for missed up down and average
probability for missed hold, when E-RGCH is transmitted using 12
consecutive slots, do not exceed specified values.

##### 10.3.1.1.4 Method of test

###### 10.3.1.1.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS and AWGN noise source and fading simulator to the UE
antenna connector as shown in figure Figure A.10.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel parameters are defined in Annex
C.11

3\) Set the test parameters for the missed up down test and the missed
hold test as specified in table 10.3.1.1.5.1. to 10.3.1.1.5.3 and table
E.5A.2. Set the fading conditions to VA 30

4\) The value of Absolute Grant Scope shall be set to the 0. and the
Absolute Grant shall be set to 5

5\) The UE is switched on.

6\) Enter the UE into loopback mode 1, looping back both the 12.2kbps
RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH, and start the loopback test. See TS 34.108 \[3\]
clause 7.3.9 and TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6. To fill
the RLC transmit buffer, run the loopback for \[3\]s before starting the
procedure.

7\) The fading simulator is switched on.

###### 10.3.1.1.4.2 Procedure

NOTE: The measurement principle for the missed up down test (step 3 to
10) and for the missed hold test (step 11 to 15) is as follows. The UE
transmits E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH. The SS transmits E-RGCH up or down or
hold (DTX). The UE changes or holds the transport format of the
corresponding E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH accordingly. This is visible for the
SS by reading the E-TFCI, signalled on the corresponding E-DPCCH.

1\) The Nominal Avg. Information Bit Rate in the DL is set to 534 kbps
according to QPSK H-Set 1. The expected througput under this level and
fading conditions is 142 kbps. The expected UL datarate is 71.6 kbps
corresponding to E-TFC Index 45.

2\) Upon reception of every E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH, the SS signals always
\"DTX\" on the E-HICH during the entire test. This way there is no
E\_HICH power. Nevertheless the UE will transmit new data, since \"E-DCH
MAC-d flow maximum number of retransmissions\" is set to 0.

3\) The SS signals 4 consecutive \"down\" on the E-RGCH

4\) The SS reads the E-TFCI for 4 consecutive HARQ processes, signalled
on the E-DPCCH, corresponding to these \"down\"

5\) If the UE increases or holds the transport format at each HARQ
process upon a \"down\" command, count a missed(down).\
\
If the UE signals Happy Bit = 1, the UE may transmit less data than
granted. (TS25.321 \[13\] section 11.8.1.5. bullet point 1) The
corresponding E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH TTI is not counted as sample.

6\) The SS signals 4 consecutive \"up\" on the E-RGCH

7\) The SS reads the E-TFCI for 4 consecutive HARQ processes, signalled
on the E-DPCCH corresponding to these \"up\".

8\) If the UE decreases or holds the transport format at each HARQ
process upon an \"up\" command, count a missed(up).\
\
If the UE signals Happy Bit = 1, the UE may transmit less data than
granted. (TS25.321 \[13\] section 11.8.1.5. bullet point 1) The
corresponding E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH TTI is not counted as sample.

9\) Repeat the \"down-up\" cycle in step 3 to 8, such that statistical
significance according to Annex F.6.4 is achieved for up and down
separately.

Due to missed up or missed down the operating range will shift down or
up. If the operating range shifts outside the range shown in Table
10.3.1.1.4.2.1 the operating range must be re-adjusted.

Table 10.3.1.1.4.2.1 E-TFCI operating point/range(10 ms)

  ----------------------------- ----------------------------- ---------- ------------ -------- ----------------------------------- --------------
  missed up down                missed hold                   AG Value   ß~ed~/ß~c~   E-TFCI   TB Size=N\*112 + Header + Padding   UL rate kbps
                                                              6          24/15        59       1264 = 11\*112 + 18 + 14            126.4
                                                                         21/15        52       951 = 8\* 112 + 18 + 37             95.1
  **Initial operating range**   **Initial operating point**   **5**      **19/15**    **45**   **716 = 6\*112 + 18 + 26**          **71.6**
                                                                         **17/15**    **40**   **584 = 5\*112 + 18 + 6**           **58.4**
                                                              4          15/15        35       477 = 4\*112 + 18 + 11              47.7
                                                                         13/15        28       359 = 3\*112 + 18 + 4               35.9
                                                                         12/15        19       249 = 2\*112 + 18 + 7               24.9
  ----------------------------- ----------------------------- ---------- ------------ -------- ----------------------------------- --------------

10\) If one counter reaches the pass criterion, this counter is stopped
and the remaining counter is continued. The missed up down test is
decided pass, if the last counter reaches pass. The missed up down test
is decided fail, if the first counter reaches fail.

11\) Hold on E-RGCH is indicated by DTX from the SS.

12\) The SS signals \"DTX\" on the E-RGCH

13\) The SS reads the E-TFCI, signalled on the E-DPCCH corresponding to
that \"DTX\".

14\) If the UE increases or decreases the transport format upon a
\"DTX\" command, record a missed(hold).\
\
If the UE signals Happy Bit = 1, the UE may transmit less data than
granted. (TS25.321 \[13\] section 11.8.1.5. bullet point 1) The
corresponding E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH TTI is not counted as sample.

15\) Repeat step 11 to 14, such that statistical significance according
to Annex F.6.4 is achieved.

Due to missed hold the operating range will shift down or up. If the
operating range shifts outside the range shown in Table 10.3.1.1.4.2.1
the operating range must be re-adjusted.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-12 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9.2.1 of 34.108 \[3\] with the
following exceptions:

##### RADIO BEARER SETUP: {#radio-bearer-setup-12 .H6}

  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------
  Information Element                                  Value/remark                                                                            Version
  RLC PDU size                                         112                                                                                     Rel-6
  \- E-DCH Transmission Time                           10 ms                                                                                   
  E-DCH MAC-d flow maximum number of retransmissions   0                                                                                       
  E-DCH info                                                                                                                                   Rel-6
  \- Happy bit delay condition                         10 ms (indication of exhausted resources on frame basis)                                
  \- E-DCH minimum set E-TFCI                          Not Present in RGCH performance tests, all E-TFCs should be in the selection process)   
  Downlink information for each radio link list                                                                                                
  \- Downlink information for each radio link                                                                                                  
  \- CHOICE E-RGCH Information                                                                                                                 Rel-6
  \- E-RGCH Information                                                                                                                        
  \- Signature Sequence                                0                                                                                       
  \- RG combination index                              0                                                                                       
  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------

##### 10.3.1.1.5 Test requirements

Table 10.3.1.1.5.1: Test Parameters for E-RGCH -- Serving E-DCH cell

+------------------+--------------+----------------+-------------+
| Parameter        | Unit         | Missed UP/DOWN | Missed HOLD |
+------------------+--------------+----------------+-------------+
| ![               | dBm/3.84 MHz | -60            |             |
| ](media/image1.w |              |                |             |
| mf){width="0.222 |              |                |             |
| 2222222222222in" |              |                |             |
| height="0.20833  |              |                |             |
| 333333333334in"} |              |                |             |
+------------------+--------------+----------------+-------------+
| Phase reference  | \-           | P-CPICH        |             |
+------------------+--------------+----------------+-------------+
| E-RGCH           | dB           | -30.9 (test 1) | -∞ (test 2) |
+------------------+--------------+----------------+-------------+
| E-RGCH           | \-           | 50% UP         | 100% HOLD   |
| signalling       |              |                |             |
| pattern          |              | 50% DOWN       |             |
+------------------+--------------+----------------+-------------+

Table 10.3.1.1.5.2: Test requirement for Missed UP/DOWN when relative
scheduling grant is transmitted using 12 consecutive slots -- Serving
E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ----------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value          

                                         E-RGCH\           (dB)   Missed UP/DOWN probability
                                         (dB)                     

  1             VA30                     -30.9             0.6    0.05/0.05
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ----------------------------

Table 10.3.1.1.5.3: Test requirement for Missed HOLD when relative
scheduling grant is transmitted using 12 consecutive slots -- Serving
E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- -------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value   
                                         (dB)              Missed HOLD probability
  2             VA30                     0.6               0.1
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- -------------------------

To pass the test,

the ratio (missed(down) / all valid down commands, sent) \<= 0.05 and

the ratio (missed(up) / all valid up commands, sent) \<= 0.05 and

the ratio (missed(hold) / all DTX from the SS) \<= 0.1

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

#### 10.3.1.1A Single link performance (10ms TTI, Type 1)

##### 10.3.1.1A.1 Definition and applicability

The receive characteristics of the E-DCH Relative Grant Channel (E-RGCH)
in multi-path fading environment is determined by the missed UP/DOWN.
The requirements and this test apply to Release 7 and later releases for
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support E-DCH and HSDPA and the
optional Type 1 enhanced performance requirements.

NOTE: The fail cases for Up are Down (erroneous detection) and Hold
(missed detection).

The fail cases for Down are Up and Hold. TS 25.101 designated this test
\"Missed Up/Down\". It is assumed that the minimum requirements apply
for both fail cases erroneous and missed detection.

##### 10.3.1.1A.2 Minimum requirement

For the parameters specified in Table 10.3.1.1A.2.1 the average downlink
E-RGCH E~c~/I~or~ power ratio shall be below the specified value for the
missed UP/DOWN probabilities in Table 10.3.1.1A.2.2.

Table 10.3.1.1A.2.1: Parameters for E-RGCH -- Serving E-DCH cell

+------------------------------------+--------------+----------------+
| Parameter                          | Unit         | Missed UP/DOWN |
+------------------------------------+--------------+----------------+
| ![](media/image1                   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -60            |
| .wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" |              |                |
| height="0.20833333333333334in"}    |              |                |
+------------------------------------+--------------+----------------+
| Phase reference                    | \-           | P-CPICH        |
+------------------------------------+--------------+----------------+
| P-CPICH                            | dB           | -10            |
+------------------------------------+--------------+----------------+
| E-RGCH signalling pattern          | \-           | 50% UP         |
|                                    |              |                |
|                                    |              | 50% DOWN       |
+------------------------------------+--------------+----------------+

Table 10.3.1.1A.2.2: Enhanced performance requirement for Missed UP/DOWN
when relative scheduling grant is transmitted using 12 consecutive slots
-- Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ----------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value          

                                         E-RGCH\           (dB)   Missed UP/DOWN probability
                                         (dB)                     

  1             VA30                     -35               0      0.05/0.05
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ----------------------------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 10.3.1

##### 10.3.1.1A.3 Test purpose

To verify that average probability for missed up down, when E-RGCH is
transmitted using 12 consecutive slots, do not exceed specified values.

##### 10.3.1.1A.4 Method of test

###### 10.3.1.1A.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS and AWGN noise source and fading simulator to the UE
antenna connector as shown in figure Figure A.21 for UEs that support
receive diversity or figure A.10 for UEs that do not support receive
diversity.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel parameters are defined in Annex
C.11

3\) Set the test parameters for the missed up down test as specified in
table 10.3.1.1A.5.1. and 10.3.1.1A.5.2 and table E.5A.2. Set the fading
conditions to VA 30

4\) The value of Absolute Grant Scope shall be set to the 0. and the
Absolute Grant shall be set to 5

5\) The UE is switched on.

6\) Enter the UE into loopback mode 1, looping back both the 12.2kbps
RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH, and start the loopback test. See TS 34.108 \[3\]
clause 7.3.9 and TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6. To fill
the RLC transmit buffer, run the loopback for \[3\]s before starting the
procedure.

7\) The fading simulators are switched on.

###### 10.3.1.1A.4.2 Procedure

NOTE: The measurement principle for the missed up down test (step 3 to
10) is as follows. The UE transmits E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH. The SS
transmits E-RGCH up or down. The UE changes or holds the transport
format of the corresponding E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH accordingly. This is
visible for the SS by reading the E-TFCI, signalled on the corresponding
E-DPCCH.

1\) The Nominal Avg. Information Bit Rate in the DL is set to 534 kbps
according to QPSK H-Set 1. The expected througput under this level and
fading conditions is 142 kbps. The expected UL datarate is 71.6 kbps
corresponding to E-TFC Index 45.

2\) Upon reception of every E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH, the SS signals always
\"DTX\" on the E-HICH during the entire test. This way there is no
E\_HICH power. Nevertheless the UE will transmit new data, since \"E-DCH
MAC-d flow maximum number of retransmissions\" is set to 0.

3\) The SS signals 4 consecutive \"down\" on the E-RGCH

4\) The SS reads the E-TFCI for 4 consecutive HARQ processes, signalled
on the E-DPCCH, corresponding to these \"down\"

5\) If the UE increases or holds the transport format at each HARQ
process upon a \"down\" command, count a missed(down).\
\
If the UE signals Happy Bit = 1, the UE may transmit less data than
granted. (TS25.321 \[13\] section 11.8.1.5. bullet point 1) The
corresponding E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH TTI is not counted as sample.

6\) The SS signals 4 consecutive \"up\" on the E-RGCH

7\) The SS reads the E-TFCI for 4 consecutive HARQ processes, signalled
on the E-DPCCH corresponding to these \"up\".

8\) If the UE decreases or holds the transport format at each HARQ
process upon an \"up\" command, count a missed(up).\
\
If the UE signals Happy Bit = 1, the UE may transmit less data than
granted. (TS25.321 \[13\] section 11.8.1.5. bullet point 1) The
corresponding E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH TTI is not counted as sample.

9\) Repeat the \"down-up\" cycle in step 3 to 8, such that statistical
significance according to Annex F.6.4 is achieved for up and down
separately.

Due to missed up or missed down the operating range will shift down or
up. If the operating range shifts outside the range shown in Table
10.3.1.1A.4.2.1 the operating range must be re-adjusted.

Table 10.3.1.1A.4.2.1 E-TFCI operating point/range(10 ms)

  ----------------------------- ---------- ------------ -------- ----------------------------------- --------------
  missed up down                AG Value   ß~ed~/ß~c~   E-TFCI   TB Size=N\*112 + Header + Padding   UL rate kbps
                                6          24/15        59       1264 = 11\*112 + 18 + 14            126.4
                                           21/15        52       951 = 8\* 112 + 18 + 37             95.1
  **Initial operating range**   **5**      **19/15**    **45**   **716 = 6\*112 + 18 + 26**          **71.6**
                                           **17/15**    **40**   **584 = 5\*112 + 18 + 6**           **58.4**
                                4          15/15        35       477 = 4\*112 + 18 + 11              47.7
                                           13/15        28       359 = 3\*112 + 18 + 4               35.9
                                           12/15        19       249 = 2\*112 + 18 + 7               24.9
  ----------------------------- ---------- ------------ -------- ----------------------------------- --------------

10\) If one counter reaches the pass criterion, this counter is stopped
and the remaining counter is continued. The missed up down test is
decided pass, if the last counter reaches pass. The missed up down test
is decided fail, if the first counter reaches fail.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-13 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9.2.1 of 34.108 \[3\] with the
following exceptions:

##### RADIO BEARER SETUP: {#radio-bearer-setup-13 .H6}

  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------
  Information Element                                  Value/remark                                                                            Version
  RLC PDU size                                         112                                                                                     Rel-6
  \- E-DCH Transmission Time                           10 ms                                                                                   
  E-DCH MAC-d flow maximum number of retransmissions   0                                                                                       
  E-DCH info                                                                                                                                   Rel-6
  \- Happy bit delay condition                         10 ms (indication of exhausted resources on frame basis)                                
  \- E-DCH minimum set E-TFCI                          Not Present in RGCH performance tests, all E-TFCs should be in the selection process)   
  Downlink information for each radio link list                                                                                                
  \- Downlink information for each radio link                                                                                                  
  \- CHOICE E-RGCH Information                                                                                                                 Rel-6
  \- E-RGCH Information                                                                                                                        
  \- Signature Sequence                                0                                                                                       
  \- RG combination index                              0                                                                                       
  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------

##### 10.3.1.1A.5 Test requirements

Table 10.3.1.1A.5.1: Test Parameters for E-RGCH -- Serving E-DCH cell

+------------------------------------+--------------+----------------+
| Parameter                          | Unit         | Missed UP/DOWN |
+------------------------------------+--------------+----------------+
| ![](media/image1                   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -60            |
| .wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" |              |                |
| height="0.20833333333333334in"}    |              |                |
+------------------------------------+--------------+----------------+
| Phase reference                    | \-           | P-CPICH        |
+------------------------------------+--------------+----------------+
| E-RGCH                             | dB           | -34.9 (test 1) |
+------------------------------------+--------------+----------------+
| E-RGCH signalling pattern          | \-           | 50% UP         |
|                                    |              |                |
|                                    |              | 50% DOWN       |
+------------------------------------+--------------+----------------+

Table 10.3.1.1A.5.2: Test requirement Type 1 for Missed UP/DOWN when
relative scheduling grant is transmitted using 12 consecutive slots --
Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ----------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value          

                                         E-RGCH\           (dB)   Missed UP/DOWN probability
                                         (dB)                     

  1             VA30                     -34.9             0.6    0.05/0.05
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ----------------------------

To pass the test,

the ratio (missed(down) / all valid down commands, sent) \<= 0.05 and

the ratio (missed(up) / all valid up commands, sent) \<= 0.05

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

#### 10.3.1.2 Single link performance (2ms TTI)

##### 10.3.1.2.1 Definition and applicability

The receive characteristics of the E-DCH Relative Grant Channel (E-RGCH)
in multi-path fading environment is determined by the missed UP/DOWN and
missed HOLD. The requirements and this test apply to Release 6 and later
releases for all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support E-DCH with
2ms TTI and HSDPA.

NOTE: The fail cases for Up are Down (erroneous detection) and Hold
(missed detection).

The fail cases for Down are Up and Hold. TS 25.101 designated this test
\"Missed Up/Down\". It is assumed that the minimum requirements apply
for both fail cases erroneous and missed detection.

##### 10.3.1.2.2 Minimum requirement

For the parameters specified in Table 10.3.1.2.2.1 the average downlink
E-RGCH E~c~/I~or~ power ratio shall be below the specified value for the
missed UP/DOWN probabilities in Table 10.3.1.2. 2.2 and

For the parameters specified in Table 10.3.1.2.2.1 the missed HOLD
probability shall be below the specified value in Table 10.3.1.2.2.3

Table 10.3.1.2.2.1: Parameters for E-RGCH -- Serving E-DCH cell

+------------------+--------------+----------------+-------------+
| Parameter        | Unit         | Missed UP/DOWN | Missed HOLD |
+------------------+--------------+----------------+-------------+
| ![               | dBm/3.84 MHz | -60            |             |
| ](media/image1.w |              |                |             |
| mf){width="0.222 |              |                |             |
| 2222222222222in" |              |                |             |
| height="0.20833  |              |                |             |
| 333333333334in"} |              |                |             |
+------------------+--------------+----------------+-------------+
| Phase reference  | \-           | P-CPICH        |             |
+------------------+--------------+----------------+-------------+
| P-CPICH          | dB           | -10            |             |
+------------------+--------------+----------------+-------------+
| E-RGCH           | \-           | 50% UP         | 100% HOLD   |
| signalling       |              |                |             |
| pattern          |              | 50% DOWN       |             |
+------------------+--------------+----------------+-------------+

Table 10.3.1.2.2.2: Minimum requirement for Missed UP/DOWN when relative
scheduling grant is transmitted using 3 consecutive slots -- Serving
E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ----------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value          

                                         E-RGCH\           (dB)   Missed UP/DOWN probability
                                         (dB)                     

  1             VA30                     -24.4             0      0.05/0.05
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ----------------------------

Table 10.3.1.2.2.3: Minimum requirement for Missed HOLD when relative
scheduling grant is transmitted using 3 consecutive slots -- Serving
E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- -------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value   
                                         (dB)              Missed HOLD probability
  2             VA30                     0                 0.1
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- -------------------------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 10.3.1

##### 10.3.1.2.3 Test purpose

To verify that average probability for missed up down and average
probability for missed hold when E-RGCH is transmitted using 12
consecutive slots do not exceed specified values.

##### 10.3.1.2.4 Method of test

###### 10.3.1.2.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS and AWGN noise source and fading simulator to the UE
antenna connector as shown in figure Figure A.10.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel parameters are defined in Annex
C.11

3\) Set the test parameters for the missed up down test and the missed
hold test as specified in table 10.3.1.2.5.1 to 10.3.1.2.5.3 and table
E.5A.2. Set the fading conditions to VA 30

4\) The value of Absolute Grant Scope shall be set to the 0, and the
Absolute Grant shall be set to 4

5\) The UE is switched on.

6\) Enter the UE into loopback mode 1, looping back both the 12.2kbps
RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH, and start the loopback test. See TS 34.108 \[3\]
clause 7.3.9 and TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6To fill the
RLC transmit buffer, run the loopback for \[3\]s before starting the
procedure.

7\) The fading simulator is switched on.

###### 10.3.1.2.4.2 Procedure

NOTE: The measurement principle for the missed up down test (step 3 to
10) and for the missed hold test (step 11 to 15) is as follows. The UE
transmits E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH. The SS transmits E-RGCH up or down or
hold (DTX). The UE changes or holds the transport format of the
corresponding E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH accordingly. This is visible for the
SS by reading the E-TFCI, signalled on the corresponding E-DPCCH.

1\) The Nominal Avg. Information Bit Rate in the DL is set to 534 kbps
according to QPSK H-Set 1. The expected througput under this level and
fading conditions is 142 kbps. The UL data rate was configured by by
signalling AG value 4 on the E-AGCH. The expected UL datarate is 273
kbps corresponding to E-TFC Index 39.

2\) Upon reception of every E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH, the SS signals always
\"DTX\" on the E-HICH during the entire test. This way there is no
E\_HICH power. Nevertheless the UE will transmit new data, since \"E-DCH
MAC-d flow maximum number of retransmissions\" is set to 0.

3\) The SS signals 8 consecutive \"up\" on the E-RGCH

4\) The SS reads the E-TFCI for 8 consecutive HARQ processes, signalled
on the E-DPCCH, corresponding to these \"up\"

5\) If the UE decreases or holds the transport format at each HARQ
process upon an \"up\" command, count a missed(up).\
\
If the UE signals Happy Bit = 1, the UE may transmit less data than
granted. (TS25.321 \[13\] section 11.8.1.5. bullet point 1) The
corresponding E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH TTI is not counted as sample.

6\) The SS signals 8 consecutive \"down\" on the E-RGCH

7\) The SS reads the E-TFCI for 8 consecutive HARQ processes, signalled
on the E-DPCCH corresponding to these \"down\".

8\) If the UE increases or holds the transport format at each HARQ
process upon a \"down\" command, count a missed(down).\
\
If the UE signals Happy Bit = 1, the UE may transmit less data than
granted. (TS25.321 \[13\] section 11.8.1.5. bullet point 1) The
corresponding E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH TTI is not counted as sample.

9\) Repeat the \"up-down\" cycle in step 3 to 8, such that statistical
significance according to Annex F.6.4 is achieved for up and down
separately.

10\) If one counter reaches the pass criterion, this counter is stopped
and the remaining counter is continued. The missed up down test is
decided pass, if the last counter reaches pass. The missed up down test
is decided fail, if the first counter reaches fail.

Due to missed up or missed down the operating range will shift down or
up. If the operating point shifts into the range \"risk of buffer
underflow\" or \"ambiguous E-TFCI\" (see Table 10.3.1.2.4.2.1) the
operating point must be re-adjusted.

Table 10.3.1.2.4.2.1 E-TFCI operating point/range(2 ms)

  ----------------------------- ----------------------------- ---------- ------------ ----------------------- ----------------------------------- ------------------
  missed up down                missed hold                   AG Value   ß~ed~/ß~c~   E-TFCI                  TB Size=N\*112+Header+min Padding   **UL rate kbps**
  Risk of buffer underflow                                                                                                                        
                                                                         21/15        54                      817 = 7\*112 + 18 + 15              408
                                                              5          19/15        50                      707 = 6\*112 + 18 + 17              353.5
  **Initial operating range**                                            17/15        45                      590 = 5\*112 + 18 + 12              295.5
                                **Initial operating point**   4          15/15        39                      474 = 4\*112 + 18 + 8               273
                                                                         13/15        31                      355 = 3\*112 + 18 + 1               177.5
  Ambiguous E-TFCI                                            12/15      21           247 = 2\*112 + 18 + 5   123.5                               
                                3                             11/15      21           247 = 2\*112 + 18 + 5   123.5                               
  ----------------------------- ----------------------------- ---------- ------------ ----------------------- ----------------------------------- ------------------

11\) Hold on E-RGCH is indicated by DTX from the SS.

12\) The SS signals \"DTX\" on the E-RGCH

13\) The SS reads the E-TFCI, signalled on the E-DPCCH corresponding to
that \"DTX\".

14\) If the UE increases or decreases the transport format upon a
\"DTX\" command, record a missed(hold).\
\
If the UE signals Happy Bit = 1, the UE may transmit less data than
granted. (TS25.321 \[13\] section 11.8.1.5. bullet point 1) The
corresponding E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH TTI is not counted as sample.

15) Repeat step 12 to 14, such that statistical significance according
    to Annex F.6.4 is achieved.

Due to missed hold the operating point will shift down or up. If the
operating point shifts into the range \"risk of buffer underflow\" or
\"ambiguous E-TFCI\" (see Table 10.3.1.2.4.2) the operating point must
be re-adjusted.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-14 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9.2.1 of 34.108 \[3\] with the
following exceptions:

##### RADIO BEARER SETUP: {#radio-bearer-setup-14 .H6}

  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------
  Information Element                                  Value/remark                                                                                  Version
  \- RLC PDU size                                      112                                                                                           Rel-6
  \- E-DCH Transmission Time                           10 ms (Test 2 and 4), 2ms (Test 1 and 3)                                                      
  E-DCH MAC-d flow maximum number of retransmissions   0                                                                                             
  E-DCH info                                                                                                                                         Rel-6
  \- Happy bit delay condition                         10 ms (Test 2 and 4), 2ms (Test 1 and 3) (indication of exhausted resources on frame basis)   
  \- E-DCH minimum set E-TFCI                          Not Present in RGCH performance tests, all E-TFCs should be in the selection process)         
  Downlink information for each radio link list                                                                                                      
  \- Downlink information for each radio link                                                                                                        
  \- CHOICE E-RGCH Information                                                                                                                       Rel-6
  \- E-RGCH Information                                                                                                                              
  \- Signature Sequence                                0                                                                                             
  \- RG combination index                              0                                                                                             
  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------

##### 10.3.1.2.5 Test requirements

Table 10.3.1.2.5.1: Test Parameters for E-RGCH -- Serving E-DCH cell

+------------------+--------------+----------------+-------------+
| Parameter        | Unit         | Missed UP/DOWN | Missed HOLD |
+------------------+--------------+----------------+-------------+
| ![               | dBm/3.84 MHz | -60            |             |
| ](media/image1.w |              |                |             |
| mf){width="0.222 |              |                |             |
| 2222222222222in" |              |                |             |
| height="0.20833  |              |                |             |
| 333333333334in"} |              |                |             |
+------------------+--------------+----------------+-------------+
| Phase reference  | \-           | P-CPICH        |             |
+------------------+--------------+----------------+-------------+
| E-RGCH           | dB           | -24.3 (test 1) | -∞ (test 2) |
+------------------+--------------+----------------+-------------+
| E-RGCH           | \-           | 50% UP         | 100% HOLD   |
| signalling       |              |                |             |
| pattern          |              | 50% DOWN       |             |
+------------------+--------------+----------------+-------------+

Table 10.3.1.2.5.2: Test requirement for Missed UP/DOWN when relative
scheduling grant is transmitted using 3 consecutive slots -- Serving
E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ----------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value          

                                         E-RGCH\           (dB)   Missed UP/DOWN probability
                                         (dB)                     

  1             VA30                     -24.3             0.6    0.05/0.05
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ----------------------------

Table 10.3.1.2.5.3: Test requirement for Missed HOLD when relative
scheduling grant is transmitted using 3 consecutive slots -- Serving
E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- -------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value   
                                         (dB)              Missed HOLD probability
  2             VA30                     0.6               0.1
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- -------------------------

To pass the test,

the ratio (missed(down) / all valid down commands, sent) \<= 0.05 and

the ratio (missed(up) / all valid up commands, sent) \<= 0.05 and

the ratio (missed(hold) / all DTX from the SS) \<= 0.1

NOTE : If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

#### 10.3.1.2A Single link performance (2ms TTI, Type 1)

##### 10.3.1.2A.1 Definition and applicability

The receive characteristics of the E-DCH Relative Grant Channel (E-RGCH)
in multi-path fading environment is determined by the missed UP/DOWN.
The requirements and this test apply to Release 7 and later releases for
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support E-DCH with 2ms TTI and
HSDPA and the optional Type 1 enhanced performance requirements.

NOTE: The fail cases for Up are Down (erroneous detection) and Hold
(missed detection).

The fail cases for Down are Up and Hold. TS 25.101 designated this test
\"Missed Up/Down\". It is assumed that the minimum requirements apply
for both fail cases erroneous and missed detection.

##### 10.3.1.2A.2 Minimum requirement

For the parameters specified in Table 10.3.1.2A.2.1 the average downlink
E-RGCH E~c~/I~or~ power ratio shall be below the specified value for the
missed UP/DOWN probabilities in Table 10.3.1.2A.2.2.

Table 10.3.1.2A.2.1: Parameters for E-RGCH -- Serving E-DCH cell

+------------------------------------+--------------+----------------+
| Parameter                          | Unit         | Missed UP/DOWN |
+------------------------------------+--------------+----------------+
| ![](media/image1                   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -60            |
| .wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" |              |                |
| height="0.20833333333333334in"}    |              |                |
+------------------------------------+--------------+----------------+
| Phase reference                    | \-           | P-CPICH        |
+------------------------------------+--------------+----------------+
| P-CPICH                            | dB           | -10            |
+------------------------------------+--------------+----------------+
| E-RGCH signalling pattern          | \-           | 50% UP         |
|                                    |              |                |
|                                    |              | 50% DOWN       |
+------------------------------------+--------------+----------------+

Table 10.3.1.2A.2.2: Enhanced performance requirement for Missed UP/DOWN
when relative scheduling grant is transmitted using 3 consecutive slots
-- Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ----------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value          

                                         E-RGCH\           (dB)   Missed UP/DOWN probability
                                         (dB)                     

  1             VA30                     -28.6             0      0.05/0.05
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ----------------------------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 10.3.1

##### 10.3.1.2A.3 Test purpose

To verify that average probability for missed up down, when E-RGCH is
transmitted using 12 consecutive slots, do not exceed specified values.

##### 10.3.1.2A.4 Method of test

###### 10.3.1.2A.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS and AWGN noise source and fading simulator to the UE
antenna connector as shown in figure Figure A.21 for UEs that support
receive diversity or figure A.10 for UEs that do not support receive
diversity.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel parameters are defined in Annex
C.11

3\) Set the test parameters for the missed up down test as specified in
table 10.3.1.2A.5.1 and 10.3.1.2A.5.2 and table E.5A.2. Set the fading
conditions to VA 30

4\) The value of Absolute Grant Scope shall be set to the 0, and the
Absolute Grant shall be set to 4

5\) The UE is switched on.

6\) Enter the UE into loopback mode 1, looping back both the 12.2kbps
RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH, and start the loopback test. See TS 34.108 \[3\]
clause 7.3.9 and TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6To fill the
RLC transmit buffer, run the loopback for \[3\]s before starting the
procedure.

7\) The fading simulators are switched on.

###### 10.3.1.2A.4.2 Procedure

NOTE: The measurement principle for the missed up down test (step 3 to
10) is as follows. The UE transmits E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH. The SS
transmits E-RGCH up or down. The UE changes or holds the transport
format of the corresponding E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH accordingly. This is
visible for the SS by reading the E-TFCI, signalled on the corresponding
E-DPCCH.

1\) The Nominal Avg. Information Bit Rate in the DL is set to 534 kbps
according to QPSK H-Set 1. The expected througput under this level and
fading conditions is 142 kbps. The UL data rate was configured by by
signalling AG value 4 on the E-AGCH. The expected UL datarate is 273
kbps corresponding to E-TFC Index 39.

2\) Upon reception of every E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH, the SS signals always
\"DTX\" on the E-HICH during the entire test. This way there is no
E\_HICH power. Nevertheless the UE will transmit new data, since \"E-DCH
MAC-d flow maximum number of retransmissions\" is set to 0.

3\) The SS signals 8 consecutive \"up\" on the E-RGCH

4\) The SS reads the E-TFCI for 8 consecutive HARQ processes, signalled
on the E-DPCCH, corresponding to that \"up\"

5\) If the UE decreases or holds the transport format at each HARQ
process upon an \"up\" command, count a missed(up).\
\
If the UE signals Happy Bit = 1, the UE may transmit less data than
granted. (TS25.321 \[13\] section 11.8.1.5. bullet point 1) The
corresponding E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH TTI is not counted as sample.

6\) The SS signals 8 consecutive \"down\" on the E-RGCH

7\) The SS reads the E-TFCI for 8 consecutive HARQ processes, signalled
on the E-DPCCH corresponding to these \"down\".

8\) If the UE increases or holds the transport format upon a \"down\"
command, count a missed(down).\
\
If the UE signals Happy Bit = 1, the UE may transmit less data than
granted. (TS25.321 \[13\] section 11.8.1.5. bullet point 1) The
corresponding E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH TTI is not counted as sample.

9\) Repeat the \"up-down\" cycle in step 3 to 8, such that statistical
significance according to Annex F.6.4 is achieved for up and down
separately.

10\) If one counter reaches the pass criterion, this counter is stopped
and the remaining counter is continued. The missed up down test is
decided pass, if the last counter reaches pass. The missed up down test
is decided fail, if the first counter reaches fail.

Due to missed up or missed down the operating range will shift down or
up. If the operating point shifts into the range \"risk of buffer
underflow\" or \"ambiguous E-TFCI\" (see Table 10.3.1.2A.4.2.1) the
operating point must be re-adjusted.

Table 10.3.1.2A.4.2.1 E-TFCI operating point/range(2 ms)

  ----------------------------- ---------- ------------ -------- ----------------------------------- ------------------
  missed up down                AG Value   ß~ed~/ß~c~   E-TFCI   TB Size=N\*112+Header+min Padding   **UL rate kbps**
  Risk of buffer underflow                                                                           
                                           21/15        54       817 = 7\*112 + 18 + 15              408
                                5          19/15        50       707 = 6\*112 + 18 + 17              353.5
  **Initial operating range**              17/15        45       590 = 5\*112 + 18 + 12              295.5
                                4          15/15        39       474 = 4\*112 + 18 + 8               273
                                           13/15        31       355 = 3\*112 + 18 + 1               177.5
  Ambiguous E-TFCI                         12/15        21       247 = 2\*112 + 18 + 5               123.5
                                3          11/15        21       247 = 2\*112 + 18 + 5               123.5
  ----------------------------- ---------- ------------ -------- ----------------------------------- ------------------

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-15 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9.2.1 of 34.108 \[3\] with the
following exceptions:

##### RADIO BEARER SETUP: {#radio-bearer-setup-15 .H6}

  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------
  Information Element                                  Value/remark                                                                                  Version
  \- RLC PDU size                                      112                                                                                           Rel-6
  \- E-DCH Transmission Time                           10 ms (Test 2 and 4), 2ms (Test 1 and 3)                                                      
  E-DCH MAC-d flow maximum number of retransmissions   0                                                                                             
  E-DCH info                                                                                                                                         Rel-6
  \- Happy bit delay condition                         10 ms (Test 2 and 4), 2ms (Test 1 and 3) (indication of exhausted resources on frame basis)   
  \- E-DCH minimum set E-TFCI                          Not Present in RGCH performance tests, all E-TFCs should be in the selection process)         
  Downlink information for each radio link list                                                                                                      
  \- Downlink information for each radio link                                                                                                        
  \- CHOICE E-RGCH Information                                                                                                                       Rel-6
  \- E-RGCH Information                                                                                                                              
  \- Signature Sequence                                0                                                                                             
  \- RG combination index                              0                                                                                             
  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------

##### 10.3.1.2A.5 Test requirements

Table 10.3.1.2A.5.1: Test Parameters for E-RGCH -- Serving E-DCH cell

+------------------------------------+--------------+----------------+
| Parameter                          | Unit         | Missed UP/DOWN |
+------------------------------------+--------------+----------------+
| ![](media/image1                   | dBm/3.84 MHz | -60            |
| .wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" |              |                |
| height="0.20833333333333334in"}    |              |                |
+------------------------------------+--------------+----------------+
| Phase reference                    | \-           | P-CPICH        |
+------------------------------------+--------------+----------------+
| E-RGCH                             | dB           | -28.4 (test 1) |
+------------------------------------+--------------+----------------+
| E-RGCH signalling pattern          | \-           | 50% UP         |
|                                    |              |                |
|                                    |              | 50% DOWN       |
+------------------------------------+--------------+----------------+

Table 10.3.1.2A.5.2: Test requirement Type 1 for Missed UP/DOWN when
relative scheduling grant is transmitted using 3 consecutive slots --
Serving E-DCH cell

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ----------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value          

                                         E-RGCH\           (dB)   Missed UP/DOWN probability
                                         (dB)                     

  1             VA30                     -28.4             0.6    0.05/0.05
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ----------------------------

To pass the test,

the ratio (missed(down) / all valid down commands, sent) \<= 0.05 and

the ratio (missed(up) / all valid up commands, sent) \<= 0.05

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

### 10.3.2 Detection in Inter-Cell Handover conditions

#### 10.3.2.1 Definition and applicability

The receive characteristics of the E-DCH Relative Grant Channel (E-RGCH)
is determined during an inter-cell soft handover by the missed UP/DOWN
and missed HOLD error probabilities. During the soft handover a UE
receives signals from different cells. A UE has to be able to detect
E-RGCH signalling from different cells, Serving E-DCH cell and
Non-serving E-DCH RL.

The requirements and this test apply to Release 6 and later releases for
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support E-DCH and HSDPA.

#### 10.3.2.2 Minimum requirement for Non-serving E-DCH RL

For the parameters specified in Table 10.3.2.2.1 the missed HOLD
probability shall be below the specified value in Table 10.3.2.2.2. For
the parameters specified in Table 10.3.2.2.1 the average downlink E-RGCH
E~c~/I~or~ power ratio shall be below the specified value for the missed
DOWN probabilities in Table 10.3.2.2.3.

Table 10.3.2.2.1: Requirement scenario parameters for E-RGCH --
Non-serving E-DCH RL

+------------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+
| Parameter              | Unit         | Missed HOLD | Missed DOWN |
+------------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+
| ![](me                 | dBm/3.84 MHz | -60         |             |
| dia/image1.wmf){width= |              |             |             |
| "0.2222222222222222in" |              |             |             |
| height="0              |              |             |             |
| .20833333333333334in"} |              |             |             |
+------------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+
| Phase reference        | \-           | P-CPICH     |             |
+------------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+
| P-CPICH                | dB           | -10         |             |
+------------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+
| E-RGCH signalling      | \-           | 100% UP^1^  | 100% UP^1^  |
| pattern for Serving    |              |             |             |
| E-DCH cell             |              |             |             |
+------------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+
| E-AGCH information     |              | Fixed SG^2^ | Fixed SG^2^ |
+------------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+
| E-RGCH signalling      |              | 100% HOLD   | 100% DOWN   |
| pattern for            |              |             |             |
| Non-serving E-DCH RL   |              |             |             |
+------------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+
| NOTE 1: Serving E-DCH  |              |             |             |
| cell E-RGCH power      |              |             |             |
| level is set to -22 dB |              |             |             |
| and relative           |              |             |             |
| scheduling grant is    |              |             |             |
| transmitted using 12   |              |             |             |
| consecutive slots.     |              |             |             |
|                        |              |             |             |
| NOTE 2: Serving E-DCH  |              |             |             |
| cell E-AGCH power      |              |             |             |
| level is set to -15 dB |              |             |             |
| and E-AGCH TTI length  |              |             |             |
| is 10ms.               |              |             |             |
+------------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 10.3.2.2.2: Minimum requirement for Missed HOLD when relative
scheduling grant is transmitted using 15 consecutive slots --
Non-serving E-DCH RL

  ------------- ------------------------ ---------------------------------------- -------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value                          
                                         *Î~or1~/I~oc~* and *Î~or2~/I~oc~* (dB)   Missed HOLD probability
  1             VA30                     0                                        0.005
  ------------- ------------------------ ---------------------------------------- -------------------------

Table 10.3.2.2.3: Minimum requirement for Missed DOWN when relative
scheduling grant is transmitted using 15 consecutive slots --
Non-serving E-DCH RL

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------------------- -------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value                                            

                                         E-RGCH\           *Î~or1~/I~oc~* and *Î~or2~/I~oc~* (dB)   Missed DOWN probability
                                         (dB)                                                       

  2             VA30                     -27.3             0                                        0.05
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------------------- -------------------------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 10.3.2.

#### 10.3.2.3 Test Purpose

To verify that during an inter-cell soft handover the average
probability for missed HOLD and the average probability for missed DOWN
do not exceed specified values.

#### 10.3.2.4 Method of test

##### 10.3.2.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS and AWGN noise source and fading simulators to the UE
antenna connector as shown in figure Figure A.11.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel parameters are defined in Annex
C.11.

3\) Set the test parameters for the missed HOLD and missed DOWN test as
specified in table 10.3.2.5.1 to 10.3.2.5.3 and table E.5A.3, with the
exception of *Î~or2~* that shall be set to -∞. Set the fading conditions
to VA 30.

4\) The value of Absolute Grant Scope shall be set to 0, and the
Absolute Grant shall be set to 5.

5\) The UE is switched on.

6\) Enter the UE into loopback mode 1, looping back both the 12.2kbps
RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH, and start the loopback test. See TS 34.108 \[3\]
clause 7.3.9 and TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6. To fill
the RLC transmit buffer, run the loopback for \[3\]s before starting the
procedure.

7\) Reset *Î~or2~* according to tables 10.3.2.5.2 to 10.3.2.5.3. The
downlink DPCH of cell 2 must remain inactivated.

8\) UE shall transmit a MEASUREMENT REPORT message triggered by event 1A
containing the CFN-SFN time difference between cell 1 and cell 2.

9\) The downlink DPCH of cell 2 shall be activated.

10\) SS shall send an ACTIVE SET UPDATE message adding cell 2 to the
active set.

11\) The fading simulators are switched on.

##### 10.3.2.4.2 Procedure

NOTE: The measurement principle of the missed hold test (step 3 to 5) is
as follows: Upon the UE transmission on E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH, the SS
responds as follows: Cell 1 responds \"up\" on the E-RGCH and a fixed SG
on the E-AGCH. Cell 2 responds DTX=hold. The SS reads the transport
format, signalled on the E-DPCCH, corresponding to that signalling. If
the E-TFCI is not changed, the reception on cell 2 is interpreted as
hold. If the E-TFCI is decreased by one step, the DTX on cell 2 was
received as down. If the E-TFCI is increased to the fixed SG, then the
hold on cell 2 was received correctly and the Non\_Serving\_RG\_Timer
has expired.

1\. The Nominal Avg. Information Bit Rate in the DL is set to 534 kbps
according to QPSK H-Set 1. The expected throughput under this level and
fading conditions is tested with a single cell in clause 9.2.1, but the
DL throughput for this test case will be less than for the single cell
case because of interference from Cell 2. The DL throughput for this
test case is estimated based on the HSDPA throughput corresponding to
the subtests using \"HS-PDSCH Ec/Ior = -6dB\" condition in 9.2.1A. The
worst case for a conformant UE is 22 kbps. The UL data rate was
configured by signalling AG value = 5 on the E-AGCH. The expected UL
data rate is 71.6 kbps corresponding to E-TFC Index 45.

2\. Upon reception of every E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH, the SS signals always
\"DTX\" on the E-HICH during the entire test. This way there is no
E\_HICH power. Nevertheless the UE will transmit new data, since \"E-DCH
MAC-d flow maximum number of retransmissions\" is set to 0.

3\. Upon reception of the E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH, the SS signals \"up\" on
the E-RGCH and AG value = 5 on the E-AGCH of cell 1 and \"DTX\" on the
E-RGCH of cell 2.

4\. The SS reads the E-TFCI transport, signalled on the E-DPCCH,
corresponding to that \"up and SG\".

5\. If the UE decreases the E-TFCI by one step, the DTX on the E-RGCH of
cell 2 was received as \"down\". Count a missed(hold). If the UE holds
the E-TFCI, count a correct sample.

Figure 10.3.2.4.2.1 Void

Table 10.3.2.4.2.2 E-TFCI operating range (10 ms)

  --------------------------- --------------------------- ---------- ------------ -------- ------------------------------------- --------------
  Missed hold applicability   Missed down applicability   AG Value   ß~ed~/ß~c~   E-TFCI   TB Size = N\*112 + Header + Padding   UL rate kbps
                                                          6          24/15        59       1264 = 11\*112 + 18 + 14              126.4
                                                                     21/15        52       951 = 8\* 112 + 18 + 37               95.1
  **Fixed SG**                **Fixed SG**                **5**      **19/15**    **45**   **716 = 6\*112 + 18 + 26**            **71.6**
  Applicable SG range         Applicable SG range                    17/15        40       584 = 5\*112 + 18 + 6                 58.4
                                                          4          15/15        35       477 = 4\*112 + 18 + 11                47.7
                                                                     13/15        28       359 = 3\*112 + 18 + 4                 35.9
                                                                     12/15        19       249 = 2\*112 + 18 + 7                 24.9
  --------------------------- --------------------------- ---------- ------------ -------- ------------------------------------- --------------

If the UE increases the E-TFCI by one or more steps at one instant to
the fixed SG, signalled on the E-AGCH, the Non\_Serving\_RG\_Timer has
expired.

If the UE signals Happy Bit = 1, the UE may transmit less data than
granted. (TS25.321 \[13\] section 11.8.1.5. bullet point 1) The
corresponding E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH blocks are not counted as sample.

If the UE decreases the E-TFCI due to several missed hold to the TFCI =
19, (TFCI =45  40  35  28  19) without Non\_Serving\_RG\_Timer
expired, fail the UE.

6\. Repeat step 3) to 5) such that statistical significance according to
Annex F.6.4 is achieved.

NOTE: The measurement principle of the missed down test (step 8 to 10)
is as follows: Upon the UE transmission on E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH, the SS
responds as follows: Cell 1 sends \"up\" on the E-RGCH and a fixed SG on
the E-AGCH. Cell 2 sends down. The SS reads the transport format,
signalled on the E-DPCCH, corresponding to that signalling. If the
transport format is decreased by one step, the Down on cell 2 was
received correctly as down. If the transport format is not changed or is
increased, the down on cell 2 was missed.

7\. Repeat the settings of step 1

8\. On cell 1, the SS signals \"up\" on the E-RGCH and AG value=5 on the
E-AGCH. On cell 2, the SS signals a periodic sequence of 4 \"down\"
followed by 8 \"hold\" on the E-RGCH. The SS should not count the E-TFCI
as samples during signalling \"hold\". The sequence of 8 \"hold\" should
allow reestablishment of the initial transport format for all the HARQ
processes, unless \"hold\" is falsely detected as \"down\", when the
Non\_Serving\_RG timer is undesirably started. In that case the SS shall
not count as samples the 4 E-TFCI corresponding to the 4 \"down\" of
next period (steps 9 and 10 are not executed for those).

9\. The SS reads the E-TFCI at each HARQ process, signalled on the
E-DPCCH corresponding to that \"down on the E-RGCH of cell 2.

10\. If the UE does not decrease the E-TFCI by one step at each HARQ
process upon that \"down on cell 2\" record a missed(down). Otherwise
count a correct sample.

If the UE signals Happy Bit = 1, the UE may transmit less data than
granted. (TS25.321 \[13\] section 11.8.1.5. bullet point 1) The
corresponding E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH blocks are not counted as sample.

Figure 10.3.2.4.2.3 Void

11\. Repeat step 8 to 10, such that statistical significance according
to Annex F.6.4 is achieved.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-16 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9.2.1 of 34.108 \[3\] with the
following exceptions:

##### RADIO BEARER SETUP {#radio-bearer-setup-16 .H6}

  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------
  Information Element                                  Value/remark                                                                            Version
  \- RLC PDU size                                      112                                                                                     Rel-6
  \- E-DCH Transmission Time                           10 ms                                                                                   
  E-DCH MAC-d flow maximum number of retransmissions   0                                                                                       
  E-DCH info                                                                                                                                   Rel-6
  \- Happy bit delay condition                         10 ms                                                                                   
  \- E-DCH minimum set E-TFCI                          Not Present in RGCH performance tests, all E-TFCs should be in the selection process)   
  Downlink information for each radio link list                                                                                                
  \- Downlink information for each radio link                                                                                                  
  \- CHOICE E-RGCH Information                                                                                                                 Rel-6
  \- E-RGCH Information                                                                                                                        
  \- Signature Sequence                                0                                                                                       
  \- RG combination index                              0                                                                                       
  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------

##### ACTIVE SET UPDATE message: {#active-set-update-message-8 .H6}

  ----------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------
  Information Element/Group name                  Value/Remark                                                                                                                                                         Version
  Message Type (10.2.17)                                                                                                                                                                                               
  UE information elements                                                                                                                                                                                              
  \- RRC transaction identifier                   0                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Integrity check info                                                                                                                                                                                              
  -message authentication code                    SS calculates the value of MAC-I for this message and writes to this IE. The first/ leftmost bit of the bit string contains the most significant bit of the MAC-I.   
  -RRC message sequence number                    SS provides the value of this IE, from its internal counter.                                                                                                         
  \- Activation time                              \"now\".                                                                                                                                                             
  \- New U-RNTI                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- New H-RNTI                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  \- New Primary E-RNTI                           Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  \- New Secondary E-RNTI                         Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  CN information elements                                                                                                                                                                                              
  \- CN Information info                          Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  Phy CH information elements                                                                                                                                                                                          
  Uplink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                               
  \- Maximum allowed UL TX power                  33 dBm                                                                                                                                                               
  Downlink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                             
  \- Radio link addition information              1                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Radio link addition information                                                                                                                                                                                   
  \- Primary CPICH info                                                                                                                                                                                                
  \- Primary scrambling code                      Same as adding cell                                                                                                                                                  
  \- Downlink DPCH info for each RL                                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- CHOICE mode                                  FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  \- Primary CPICH usage for channel estimation   Primary CPICH may be used                                                                                                                                            
  \- DPCH frame offset                            This should be reflected by the IE\" Cell synchronisation information\" in received MEASUREMENT REPORT message                                                       
  \- Secondary CPICH info                         Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- DL channelisation code                                                                                                                                                                                            
  \- Secondary scrambling code                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- Spreading factor                             128                                                                                                                                                                  
  \- Code number                                  96                                                                                                                                                                   
  \- Scrambling code change                       No code change                                                                                                                                                       
  \- TPC combination index                        1                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Closed loop timing adjustment mode           Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- Downlink F-DPCH info for each RL             Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  E-HICH Information                                                                                                                                                                                                   Rel-6
  \- Channelisation Code                          6                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Signature Sequence                           1                                                                                                                                                                    
  E-RGCH Information                                                                                                                                                                                                   Rel-6
  \- Signature Sequence                           0                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- RG combination index                         1                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Radio link removal information               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- TX Diversity Mode                            Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  Serving HS-DSCH cell information                Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  E-DCH reconfiguration information               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  ----------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------

#### 10.3.2.5 Test Requirements

For table 10.3.2.5.1, the missed HOLD probability shall be below the
specified value in Table 10.3.2.5.2. For table 10.3.2.5.1, the average
downlink E-RGCH E~c~/I~or~ power ratio shall be below the specified
value for the missed DOWN probabilities in Table 10.3.2.5.3

Table 10.3.2.5.1: Test scenario parameters for E-RGCH -- Non-serving
E-DCH RL

+------------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+
| Parameter              | Unit         | Missed HOLD | Missed DOWN |
+------------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+
| ![](me                 | dBm/3.84 MHz | -60         |             |
| dia/image1.wmf){width= |              |             |             |
| "0.2222222222222222in" |              |             |             |
| height="0              |              |             |             |
| .20833333333333334in"} |              |             |             |
+------------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+
| Phase reference        | \-           | P-CPICH     |             |
+------------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+
| E-RGCH~1~              | dB           | -21.9       |             |
+------------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+
| E-AGCH~1~              | dB           | -14.9       |             |
+------------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+
| E-RGCH~2~              | dB           | -∞          | -27.2       |
+------------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+
| HS-DPSCH~1~            | dB           | -3.1        | -3.1        |
+------------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+
| E-RGCH signalling      | \-           | 100% UP^1^  | 100% UP^1^  |
| pattern for Serving    |              |             |             |
| E-DCH cell             |              |             |             |
+------------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+
| E-AGCH information     |              | Fixed SG^2^ | Fixed SG^2^ |
+------------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+
| E-RGCH signalling      |              | 100% HOLD   | 100% DOWN   |
| pattern for            |              |             |             |
| Non-serving E-DCH RL   |              |             |             |
+------------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+
| NOTE 1: Index 1: cell  |              |             |             |
| belonging to RLS       |              |             |             |
| containing the Serving |              |             |             |
| E-DCH cell, Index 2:   |              |             |             |
| cell belonging to RLS  |              |             |             |
| not containing the     |              |             |             |
| Serving E-DCH cell     |              |             |             |
|                        |              |             |             |
| NOTE 2: Serving E-DCH  |              |             |             |
| cell E-RGCH power      |              |             |             |
| level is set to -22    |              |             |             |
| dB+TT and relative     |              |             |             |
| scheduling grant is    |              |             |             |
| transmitted using 12   |              |             |             |
| consecutive slots.     |              |             |             |
|                        |              |             |             |
| NOTE 3: Serving E-DCH  |              |             |             |
| cell E-AGCH power      |              |             |             |
| level is set to -15+TT |              |             |             |
| dB and E-AGCH TTI      |              |             |             |
| length is 10ms. TT is  |              |             |             |
| added to Serving E-DCH |              |             |             |
| cell E-RGCH and E-AGCH |              |             |             |
| power. E-RGCH and      |              |             |             |
| E-AGCH reception on    |              |             |             |
| the serving cell is    |              |             |             |
| outside the test       |              |             |             |
| purpose. However       |              |             |             |
| reception errors may   |              |             |             |
| cause incorrect        |              |             |             |
| interpretation of the  |              |             |             |
| wanted test.           |              |             |             |
+------------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 10.3.2.5.2: Test requirements for Missed HOLD when relative
scheduling grant is transmitted using 15 consecutive slots --
Non-serving E-DCH RL

  ------------- ------------------------ ---------------------------------------- -------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value                          
                                         *Î~or1~/I~oc~* and *Î~or2~/I~oc~* (dB)   Missed HOLD probability
  1             VA30                     0.6                                      0.005
  ------------- ------------------------ ---------------------------------------- -------------------------

Table 10.3.2.5.3: Test requirements for Missed DOWN when relative
scheduling grant is transmitted using 15 consecutive slots --
Non-serving E-DCH RL

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------------------- -------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value                                            

                                         E-RGCH\           *Î~or1~/I~oc~* and *Î~or2~/I~oc~* (dB)   Missed DOWN probability
                                         (dB)                                                       

  2             VA30                     -27.2             0.6                                      0.05
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------------------- -------------------------

To pass the test,

The ratio (missed (hold) / all DTX from the SS) \<= 0.005 and

The ratio (missed (down) / all valid down commands, sent) \<= 0.05

NOTE : If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

### 10.3.2A Detection in Inter-Cell Handover conditions (Type 1)

#### 10.3.2A.1 Definition and applicability

The receive characteristics of the E-DCH Relative Grant Channel (E-RGCH)
is determined during an inter-cell soft handover by the missed UP/DOWN
error probabilities. During the soft handover a UE receives signals from
different cells. A UE has to be able to detect E-RGCH signalling from
different cells, Serving E-DCH cell and Non-serving E-DCH RL.

The requirements and this test apply to Release 7 and later releases for
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support E-DCH and HSDPA and the
optional Type 1 enhanced performance requirements.

#### 10.3.2A.2 Minimum requirement for Non-serving E-DCH RL

For the parameters specified in Table 10.3.2A.2.1 the average downlink
E-RGCH E~c~/I~or~ power ratio shall be below the specified value for the
missed DOWN probabilities in Table 10.3.2A.2.2.

Table 10.3.2A.2.1: Requirement scenario parameters for E-RGCH --
Non-serving E-DCH RL

+---------------------------------------+--------------+-------------+
| Parameter                             | Unit         | Missed DOWN |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+-------------+
| ![](media/ima                         | dBm/3.84 MHz | -60         |
| ge1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" |              |             |
| height="0.20833333333333334in"}       |              |             |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+-------------+
| Phase reference                       | \-           | P-CPICH     |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+-------------+
| P-CPICH                               | dB           | -10         |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+-------------+
| E-RGCH signalling pattern for Serving | \-           | 100% UP^1^  |
| E-DCH cell                            |              |             |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+-------------+
| E-AGCH information                    |              | Fixed SG^2^ |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+-------------+
| E-RGCH signalling pattern for         |              | 100% DOWN   |
| Non-serving E-DCH RL                  |              |             |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+-------------+
| NOTE 1: Serving E-DCH cell E-RGCH     |              |             |
| power level is set to -22 dB and      |              |             |
| relative scheduling grant is          |              |             |
| transmitted using 12 consecutive      |              |             |
| slots.                                |              |             |
|                                       |              |             |
| NOTE 2: Serving E-DCH cell E-AGCH     |              |             |
| power level is set to -15 dB and      |              |             |
| E-AGCH TTI length is 10ms.            |              |             |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+-------------+

Table 10.3.2A.2.2: Enhanced performance requirement for Missed DOWN when
relative scheduling grant is transmitted using 15 consecutive slots --
Non-serving E-DCH RL

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------------------- -------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value                                            

                                         E-RGCH\           *Î~or1~/I~oc~* and *Î~or2~/I~oc~* (dB)   Missed DOWN probability
                                         (dB)                                                       

  2             VA30                     -31.2             0                                        0.05
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------------------- -------------------------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 10.3.2.

#### 10.3.2A.3 Test Purpose

To verify that during an inter-cell soft handover the average
probability for missed DOWN do not exceed specified values.

#### 10.3.2A.4 Method of test

##### 10.3.2A.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS and AWGN noise source and fading simulators to the UE
antenna connector as shown in figure Figure A.24 for UEs that support
receive diversity or figure A.11 for UEs that do not support receive
diversity.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel parameters are defined in Annex
C.11.

3\) Set the test parameters for the missed DOWN test as specified in
table 10.3.2A.5.1 and 10.3.2A.5.2 and table E.5A.3 with the exception of
*Î~or2~* that shall be set to -∞.. Set the fading conditions to VA 30.

4\) The value of Absolute Grant Scope shall be set to the 0, and the
Absolute Grant shall be set to 5.

5\) The UE is switched on.

6\) Enter the UE into loopback mode 1, looping back both the 12.2kbps
RMC and HSDPA to E-DCH, and start the loopback test. See TS 34.108 \[3\]
clause 7.3.9 and TS 34.109 \[4\] clauses 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6. To fill
the RLC transmit buffer, run the loopback for \[3\]s before starting the
procedure.

7\) Reset *Î~or2~* according to tables 10.3.2A.5.1 to 10.3.2A.5.2. The
downlink DPCH of cell 2 must remain inactivated.

8\) UE shall transmit a MEASUREMENT REPORT message triggered by event 1A
containing the CFN-SFN time difference between cell 1 and cell 2.

9\) The downlink DPCH of cell 2 shall be activated.

10\) SS shall send an ACTIVE SET UPDATE message adding cell 2 to the
active set.

11\) The fading simulators are switched on.

##### 10.3.2A.4.2 Procedure

NOTE: The measurement principle of the missed down test is as follows:
Upon the UE transmission on E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH, the SS responds as
follows: Cell 1 sends \"up\" on the E-RGCH and a fixed SG on the E-AGCH.
Cell 2 sends down. The SS reads the transport format, signalled on the
E-DPCCH, corresponding to that signalling. .If the transport format is
decreased by one step, the Down on cell 2 was received correctly as
down. If the transport format is not changed or is increased, the down
on cell 2 was missed.

1\. The Nominal Avg. Information Bit Rate in the DL is set to 534 kbps
according to QPSK H-Set 1. The expected throughput under this level and
fading conditions is tested with a single cell in clause 9.2.1, but the
DL throughput for this test case will be less than for the single cell
case because of interference from Cell 2. The DL throughput for this
test case is estimated based on the HSDPA throughput corresponding to
the subtests using \"HS-PDSCH Ec/Ior = -6dB\" condition in 9.2.1A. The
worst case for a conformant UE is 22 kbps. The UL data rate was
configured by signalling AG value = 5 on the E-AGCH. The expected UL
data rate is 71.6 kbps corresponding to E-TFC Index 45.

Table 10.3.2A.4.2.1 E-TFCI operating range (10 ms)

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| > Missed | > AG     | > ß~     | > E-TFCI | > TB     | > UL     |
| > down   | > Value  | ed~/ß~c~ |          | > Size = | > rate   |
| > appli  |          |          |          | > N\*112 | > kbps   |
| cability |          |          |          | > +      |          |
|          |          |          |          | > Header |          |
|          |          |          |          | > +      |          |
|          |          |          |          | >        |          |
|          |          |          |          |  Padding |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | > 6      | > 24/15  | > 59     | > 1264 = | > 126.4  |
|          |          |          |          | >        |          |
|          |          |          |          |  11\*112 |          |
|          |          |          |          | > + 18 + |          |
|          |          |          |          | > 14     |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          |          | > 21/15  | > 52     | > 951 =  | > 95.1   |
|          |          |          |          | > 8\*    |          |
|          |          |          |          | > 112 +  |          |
|          |          |          |          | > 18 +   |          |
|          |          |          |          | > 37     |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| >        | > **5**  | > *      | > **45** | > **716  | >        |
|  **Fixed |          | *19/15** |          | > =      | **71.6** |
| > SG**   |          |          |          | > 6\*112 |          |
|          |          |          |          | > + 18 + |          |
|          |          |          |          | > 26**   |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| > Ap     |          | > 17/15  | > 40     | > 584 =  | > 58.4   |
| plicable |          |          |          | > 5\*112 |          |
| > SG     |          |          |          | > + 18 + |          |
| > range  |          |          |          | > 6      |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | > 4      | > 15/15  | > 35     | > 477 =  | > 47.7   |
|          |          |          |          | > 4\*112 |          |
|          |          |          |          | > + 18 + |          |
|          |          |          |          | > 11     |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          |          | > 13/15  | > 28     | > 359 =  | > 35.9   |
|          |          |          |          | > 3\*112 |          |
|          |          |          |          | > + 18 + |          |
|          |          |          |          | > 4      |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          |          | > 12/15  | > 19     | > 249 =  | > 24.9   |
|          |          |          |          | > 2\*112 |          |
|          |          |          |          | > + 18 + |          |
|          |          |          |          | > 7      |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

2\. The SS signals 4 consecutive \"down\" on the E-RGCH of cell 2
followed by a sequence of hold. The SS signals up on the E-RGCH of cell
1 and AG value = 5 on the E-AGCH always. (To avoid the lower limit of SG
after several down in sequence, the SS signals hold continuously on cell
2 until the initial transport format is re-established). The SS should
not count the E-TFCI as samples during signalling hold.). The SS shall
take into account that UE may falsely detect \"Hold\" of the non-serving
cell to \"Down\", when the Non\_Serving\_RG timer is undesirably
started. In that case the SS shall not count as samples the 4 E-TFCI
corresponding to the 4 \"down\" of next period (steps 3 and 4 are not
executed for those).

3\. The SS reads the E-TFCI at each HARQ process, signalled on the
E-DPCCH corresponding to that \"down on the E-RGCH of cell 2.

4 If the UE does not decrease the E-TFCI by one step at each HARQ
process upon that \"down on cell 2\" record a missed(down). Otherwise
count a correct sample.

If the UE signals Happy Bit = 1, the UE may transmit less data than
granted. (TS25.321 \[13\] section 11.8.1.5. bullet point 1) The
corresponding E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH blocks are not counted as sample.

5\. Repeat step 2 to 4, such that statistical significance according to
Annex F.6.4 is achieved.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-17 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9.2.1 of 34.108 \[3\] with the
following exceptions:

##### RADIO BEARER SETUP {#radio-bearer-setup-17 .H6}

  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------
  Information Element                                  Value/remark                                                                            Version
  \- RLC PDU size                                      112                                                                                     Rel-6
  \- E-DCH Transmission Time                           10 ms                                                                                   
  E-DCH MAC-d flow maximum number of retransmissions   0                                                                                       
  E-DCH info                                                                                                                                   Rel-6
  \- Happy bit delay condition                         10 ms                                                                                   
  \- E-DCH minimum set E-TFCI                          Not Present in RGCH performance tests, all E-TFCs should be in the selection process)   
  Downlink information for each radio link list                                                                                                
  \- Downlink information for each radio link                                                                                                  
  \- CHOICE E-RGCH Information                                                                                                                 Rel-6
  \- E-RGCH Information                                                                                                                        
  \- Signature Sequence                                0                                                                                       
  \- RG combination index                              0                                                                                       
  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------

##### ACTIVE SET UPDATE message: {#active-set-update-message-9 .H6}

  ----------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------
  Information Element/Group name                  Value/Remark                                                                                                                                                         Version
  Message Type (10.2.17)                                                                                                                                                                                               
  UE information elements                                                                                                                                                                                              
  \- RRC transaction identifier                   0                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Integrity check info                                                                                                                                                                                              
  -message authentication code                    SS calculates the value of MAC-I for this message and writes to this IE. The first/ leftmost bit of the bit string contains the most significant bit of the MAC-I.   
  -RRC message sequence number                    SS provides the value of this IE, from its internal counter.                                                                                                         
  \- Activation time                              \"now\".                                                                                                                                                             
  \- New U-RNTI                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- New H-RNTI                                   Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  \- New Primary E-RNTI                           Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  \- New Secondary E-RNTI                         Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  CN information elements                                                                                                                                                                                              
  \- CN Information info                          Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  Phy CH information elements                                                                                                                                                                                          
  Uplink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                               
  \- Maximum allowed UL TX power                  33 dBm                                                                                                                                                               
  Downlink radio resources                                                                                                                                                                                             
  \- Radio link addition information              1                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Radio link addition information                                                                                                                                                                                   
  \- Primary CPICH info                                                                                                                                                                                                
  \- Primary scrambling code                      Same as adding cell                                                                                                                                                  
  \- Downlink DPCH info for each RL                                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- CHOICE mode                                  FDD                                                                                                                                                                  
  \- Primary CPICH usage for channel estimation   Primary CPICH may be used                                                                                                                                            
  \- DPCH frame offset                            This should be reflected by the IE\" Cell synchronisation information\" in received MEASUREMENT REPORT message                                                       
  \- Secondary CPICH info                         Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- DL channelisation code                                                                                                                                                                                            
  \- Secondary scrambling code                    Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- Spreading factor                             128                                                                                                                                                                  
  \- Code number                                  96                                                                                                                                                                   
  \- Scrambling code change                       No code change                                                                                                                                                       
  \- TPC combination index                        1                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Closed loop timing adjustment mode           Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- Downlink F-DPCH info for each RL             Not present                                                                                                                                                          
  E-HICH Information                                                                                                                                                                                                   Rel-6
  \- Channelisation Code                          6                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Signature Sequence                           1                                                                                                                                                                    
  E-RGCH Information                              Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  \- Signature Sequence                           0                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- RG combination index                         1                                                                                                                                                                    
  \- Radio link removal information               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  \- TX Diversity Mode                            Not Present                                                                                                                                                          
  Serving HS-DSCH cell information                Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  E-DCH reconfiguration information               Not Present                                                                                                                                                          Rel-6
  ----------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------

#### 10.3.2A.5 Test Requirements

For table 10.3.2A.5.1, the average downlink E-RGCH E~c~/I~or~ power
ratio shall be below the specified value for the missed DOWN
probabilities in Table 10.3.2A.5.2

Table 10.3.2A.5.1: Test scenario parameters for E-RGCH -- Non-serving
E-DCH RL

+---------------------------------------+--------------+-------------+
| Parameter                             | Unit         | Missed DOWN |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+-------------+
| ![](media/ima                         | dBm/3.84 MHz | -60         |
| ge1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" |              |             |
| height="0.20833333333333334in"}       |              |             |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+-------------+
| Phase reference                       | \-           | P-CPICH     |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+-------------+
| E-RGCH~1~                             | dB           | -21.9       |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+-------------+
| E-AGCH~1~                             | dB           | -14.9       |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+-------------+
| E-RGCH~2~                             | dB           | -31.1       |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+-------------+
| HS-DPSCH~1~                           | dB           | -3.1        |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+-------------+
| E-RGCH signalling pattern for Serving | \-           | 100% UP^1^  |
| E-DCH cell                            |              |             |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+-------------+
| E-AGCH information                    |              | Fixed SG^2^ |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+-------------+
| E-RGCH signalling pattern for         |              | 100% DOWN   |
| Non-serving E-DCH RL                  |              |             |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+-------------+
| NOTE 1: Index 1: cell belonging to    |              |             |
| RLS containing the Serving E-DCH      |              |             |
| cell, Index 2: cell belonging to RLS  |              |             |
| not containing the Serving E-DCH cell |              |             |
|                                       |              |             |
| NOTE 2: Serving E-DCH cell E-RGCH     |              |             |
| power level is set to -22 dB+TT and   |              |             |
| relative scheduling grant is          |              |             |
| transmitted using 12 consecutive      |              |             |
| slots.                                |              |             |
|                                       |              |             |
| NOTE 3: Serving E-DCH cell E-AGCH     |              |             |
| power level is set to -15+TT dB and   |              |             |
| E-AGCH TTI length is 10ms. TT is      |              |             |
| added to Serving E-DCH cell E-RGCH    |              |             |
| and E-AGCH power. E-RGCH and E-AGCH   |              |             |
| reception on the serving cell is      |              |             |
| outside the test purpose. However     |              |             |
| reception errors may cause incorrect  |              |             |
| interpretation of the wanted test.    |              |             |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+-------------+

Table 10.3.2A.5.2: Test requirements Type 1 for Missed DOWN when
relative scheduling grant is transmitted using 15 consecutive slots --
Non-serving E-DCH RL

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------------------- -------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value                                            

                                         E-RGCH\           *Î~or1~/I~oc~* and *Î~or2~/I~oc~* (dB)   Missed DOWN probability
                                         (dB)                                                       

  2             VA30                     -31.1             0.6                                      0.05
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------------------- -------------------------

To pass the test,

The ratio (missed (down) / all valid down commands, sent) \<= 0.05

NOTE : If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum
Requirement then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero.
The Test Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in clause F.4.

10.4 Demodulation of E-DCH Absolute Grant Channel (E-AGCH)
----------------------------------------------------------

### 10.4.1 Single link performance 

#### 10.4.1.1 Definition and applicability

The receive characteristics of the E-DCH Absolute Grant Channel (E-AGCH)
in multi-path fading environment is determined by the missed detection
probability. The requirements and this test apply to Release 6 and later
releases for all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA and
E-DCH.

#### 10.4.1.2 Minimum requirement

For the parameters specified in Table 10.4.1.1 the average downlink
E-AGCH E~c~/I~or~ power ratio shall be below the specified value for the
missed detection probability in Table 10.4.1.2.

Table 10.4.1.1: Test parameters for E-AGCH detection -- single link

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------- ------------------
  Parameter                                                                            Unit           Missed detection
  ![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   dBm/3.84 MHz   -60
  Phase reference                                                                      \-             P-CPICH
  P-CPICH                                                                              dB             -10
  E-AGCH information                                                                   \-             Varying SG
  E-AGCH TTI length                                                                    ms             10
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------- ------------------

Table 10.4.1.2: Minimum requirement for E-AGCH detection -- single link

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ----------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value          

                                         E-AGCH\           (dB)   Miss detection probability
                                         (dB)                     

  1             VA30                     -23.2             0      0.01
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ----------------------------

#### 10.4.1.3 Test Purpose

The aim of the test is to verify that the missed detection probability
of the E-AGCH channel does not exceed 0.01.

#### 10.4.1.4 Method of test

##### 10.4.1.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clause G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4

1\) Connect the SS and AWGN noise source and fading simulator to the UE
antenna connector as shown in Figure A.10.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel parameters are defined in Annex
C.11.

3\) Set the test parameters for the missed detection test as specified
in Table 10.4.1.3, 10.4.1.3a and Table E.5A.2. Setup the fading
simulator as per the fading condition, which is described in Table
10.4.1.3a.

4\) Relative Grant shall not be transmitted on the E-RGCH and only
Absolute Grant sent on E-AGCH will affect the Serving Grant (SG).

5\) The value of Absolute Grant Scope shall be set to the 0 and the
Absolute Grant shall be set to the 4.

6\) The UE is switched on.

7\) Enter the UE into loopback mode 1 looping back both the 12.2kbps RMC
and HSDPA to E-DCH and start the loopback test. See TS34.108\[3\] clause
7.3.9 and TS34.109\[4\] clause 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH. This way the UE is configured to
transmit a data stream on the E-DPDCH with E-DPCCH. To fill the RLC
transmit buffer, run the loopback for \[3\]s before starting the
procedure.

8\) Switch on the fading simulator

##### 10.4.1.4.2 Procedure

1\) The SS shall signal 100% ACK on the E-HICH for all processes.

2\) The SS shall signal the Absolute Grants according to the E-AGCH
information sequence as defined in Table 10.4.1.3.

3\) The SS shall analyse the E-TFCI transmitted on the E-DPCCH for each
E-DCH TTI to determine if a missed detection event has occurred by
correlating the detected E-TFCIs with the expected E-TFCIs corresponding
to the absolute grant sequence sent on E-AGCH. If the expected E-TFC is
not detected by the SS, record a missed detection event.

4\) The test shall be run such that statistical significance according
to Annex F.6.4 is achieved.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-18 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9.2.1 of 34.108 \[3\] with the
following exceptions:

##### RADIO BEARER SETUP: {#radio-bearer-setup-18 .H6}

  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------
  Information Element                                  Value/remark
  E-DCH MAC-d flow maximum number of retransmissions   0
  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------

#### 10.4.1.5 Test Requirements

The missed detection probability shall not exceed to the values
specified in Table 10.4.1.3a.

The missed detection probability = the ratio of (missed detection
event)/ (all detected E-TFCI event) ≤ 0.01.

Tables 10.4.1.3 and 10.4.1.3a define the primary level settings
including test tolerance and test parameters for the test.

Table 10.4.1.3: Test parameters for E-AGCH detection -- single link

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Parameter                                                                            Unit           Missed detection
  ![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   dBm/3.84 MHz   -60
  Phase reference                                                                      \-             P-CPICH
  P-CPICH                                                                              dB             -10
  E-AGCH information                                                                                  The E-AGCH information sequence \"AG~4~ AG~8~ AG~10~ AG~4~ AG~8~ AG~10~ AG~4~ AG~8~ AG~10,...~\" shall be transmitted continuously, where AG~4~, AG~8~ and AG~10~ denote absolute grant index of 4, 8, 10 respectively
  E-AGCH TTI length                                                                    ms             10
  E-HICH                                                                               dB             -20
  *β~c~*                                                                                              15/15
  *β~d~*                                                                                              5/15
  *β~hs~*                                                                                             15/15
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 10.4.1.3a: Test requirement for E-AGCH detection -- single link

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ----------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value          

                                         E-AGCH\           (dB)   Miss detection probability
                                         (dB)                     

  1             VA30                     -23.1             0.6    0.01
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ----------------------------

The exact mapping of the E-AGCH absolute grant indices and the expected
E-TFCIs is shown in Table 10.4.1.4. The mapping shall be used by the SS
to compute the missed detection probability.

Table 10.4.1.4: Mapping of the E-AGCH test sequence and the expected
E-TFCI

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Absolute Grant Index                                                                                                                                                                                                              Expected E-TFCI index
  AG~4~                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E-TFCI~28~
  AG~8~                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E-TFCI~67~
  AG~10~                                                                                                                                                                                                                            E-TFCI~81~
  NOTE: E-TFCI~28,~ E-TFCI~67~ E-TFCI~81~ denotes the E-TFC index of 28, 67 and 81 from 10ms TTI Table 0 in 25.321\[13\]. This mapping is based on the assumption that 1, 5 or 9 RLC PDUs of size 336 bits are used respectively.   
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------

### 10.4.1A Single link performance (Type 1) 

#### 10.4.1A.1 Definition and applicability

The receive characteristics of the E-DCH Absolute Grant Channel (E-AGCH)
in multi-path fading environment is determined by the missed detection
probability. The requirements and this test apply to Release 7 and later
releases for all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support HSDPA and
E-DCH and the optional Type 1 enhanced performance requirements.

#### 10.4.1A.2 Minimum requirement

For the parameters specified in Table 10.4.1A.1 the average downlink
E-AGCH E~c~/I~or~ power ratio shall be below the specified value for the
missed detection probability in Table 10.4.1A.2.

Table 10.4.1A.1: Test parameters for E-AGCH detection -- single link

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------- ------------------
  Parameter                                                                            Unit           Missed detection
  ![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   dBm/3.84 MHz   -60
  Phase reference                                                                      \-             P-CPICH
  P-CPICH                                                                              dB             -10
  E-AGCH information                                                                   \-             Varying SG
  E-AGCH TTI length                                                                    ms             10
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------- ------------------

Table 10.4.1A.2: Enhanced performance requirement for E-AGCH detection
-- single link

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ----------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value          

                                         E-AGCH\           (dB)   Miss detection probability
                                         (dB)                     

  1             VA30                     -26.8             0      0.01
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ----------------------------

#### 10.4.1A.3 Test Purpose

The aim of the test is to verify that the missed detection probability
of the E-AGCH channel does not exceed 0.01.

#### 10.4.1A.4 Method of test

##### 10.4.1A.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clause G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4

1\) Connect the SS and AWGN noise source and fading simulator to the UE
antenna connector as shown in Figure A.21 for UEs that support receive
diversity or figure A.10 for UEs that do not support receive diversity.

2\) The UL Reference Measurement Channel parameters are defined in Annex
C.11.

3\) Set the test parameters for the missed detection test as specified
in Table 10.4.1A.3 and 10.4.1A.5 and Table E.5A.2. Setup the fading
simulator as per the fading condition, which is described in Table
10.4.1A.5.

4\) Relative Grant shall not be transmitted on the E-RGCH and only
Absolute Grant sent on E-AGCH will affect the Serving Grant (SG).

5\) The value of Absolute Grant Scope shall be set to the 0 and the
Absolute Grant shall be set to the 4.

6\) The UE is switched on.

7\) Enter the UE into loopback mode 1 looping back both the 12.2kbps RMC
and HSDPA to E-DCH and start the loopback test. See TS34.108\[3\] clause
7.3.9 and TS34.109\[4\] clause 5.3.2.3 and 5.3.2.6 for details regarding
loopback test mode for HSDPA and E-DCH. This way the UE is configured to
transmit a data stream on the E-DPDCH with E-DPCCH. To fill the RLC
transmit buffer, run the loopback for \[3\]s before starting the
procedure.

8\) Switch on the fading simulators

##### 10.4.1A.4.2 Procedure

1\) The SS shall signal 100% ACK on the E-HICH for all processes.

2\) The SS shall signal the Absolute Grants according to the E-AGCH
information sequence as defined in Table 10.4.1A.3.

3\) The SS shall analyse the E-TFCI transmitted on the E-DPCCH for each
E-DCH TTI to determine if a missed detection event has occurred by
correlating the detected E-TFCIs with the expected E-TFCIs corresponding
to the absolute grant sequence sent on E-AGCH. If the expected E-TFC is
not detected by the SS, record a missed detection event.

4\) The test shall be run such that statistical significance according
to Annex F.6.4 is achieved.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-19 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9.2.1 of 34.108 \[3\] with the
following exceptions:

##### RADIO BEARER SETUP: {#radio-bearer-setup-19 .H6}

  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------
  Information Element                                  Value/remark
  E-DCH MAC-d flow maximum number of retransmissions   0
  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------

#### 10.4.1A.5 Test Requirements

The missed detection probability shall not exceed to the values
specified in Table 10.4.1A.5.

The missed detection probability = the ratio of (missed detection
event)/ (all detected E-TFCI event) ≤ 0.01.

Table 10.4.1A.3 and 10.4.1A.5 define the primary level settings
including test tolerance and test parameters for the test.

Table 10.4.1A.3: Test parameters for E-AGCH detection -- single link

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Parameter                                                                            Unit           Missed detection
  ![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}   dBm/3.84 MHz   -60
  Phase reference                                                                      \-             P-CPICH
  P-CPICH                                                                              dB             -10
  E-AGCH information                                                                                  The E-AGCH information sequence \"AG~4~ AG~8~ AG~10~ AG~4~ AG~8~ AG~10~ AG~4~ AG~8~ AG~10,...~\" shall be transmitted continuously, where AG~4~, AG~8~ and AG~10~ denote absolute grant index of 4, 8, 10 respectively
  E-AGCH TTI length                                                                    ms             10
  E-HICH                                                                               dB             -20
  *β~c~*                                                                                              15/15
  *β~d~*                                                                                              5/15
  *β~hs~*                                                                                             15/15
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The exact mapping of the E-AGCH absolute grant indices and the expected
E-TFCIs is shown in Table 10.4.1A.4. The mapping shall be used by the SS
to compute the missed detection probability.

Table 10.4.1A.4: Mapping of the E-AGCH test sequence and the expected
E-TFCI

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Absolute Grant Index                                                                                                                                                                                                              Expected E-TFCI index
  AG~4~                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E-TFCI~28~
  AG~8~                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E-TFCI~67~
  AG~10~                                                                                                                                                                                                                            E-TFCI~81~
  NOTE: E-TFCI~28,~ E-TFCI~67~ E-TFCI~81~ denotes the E-TFC index of 28, 67 and 81 from 10ms TTI Table 0 in 25.321\[13\]. This mapping is based on the assumption that 1, 5 or 9 RLC PDUs of size 336 bits are used respectively.   
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------

Table 10.4.1A.5: Test requirement for E-AGCH detection -- single link

  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ----------------------------
  Test Number   Propagation Conditions   Reference value          

                                         E-AGCH\           (dB)   Miss detection probability
                                         (dB)                     

  1             VA30                     -26.7             0.6    0.01
  ------------- ------------------------ ----------------- ------ ----------------------------

11 Performance requirement (MBMS)
=================================

11.1 General
------------

The performance requirements for the UE in this subclause are specified
for the propagation conditions specified in Annex D.2 and the Downlink
Physical channels specified in Annex E.5B.

Unless otherwise stated the receiver characteristics are specified at
the antenna connector of the UE. For UEs with more than one receiver
antenna connector the fading of the signals and the AWGN signals applied
to each receiver antenna connector shall be uncorrelated. The levels of
the test signal applied to each of the antenna connectors shall be as
defined in the respective sections below.

For MBMS test cases which require invalid MAC header to be transmitted
during the test, the configuration of invalid MAC header for MTCH
transmission shall use the value \"1111\" for the MBMS-Id field. The UE
shall discard PDU's with this invalid MAC header according TS
25.321\[13\] section 10.

A UE with one antenna connector may also fulfill the enhanced
performance requirements Type 1. The levels of the test signal are
applied to the single antenna connector as defined in the respective
sections below.

11.2 Demodulation of MTCH
-------------------------

### 11.2.1 Definition and applicability

The receive characteristic of the MTCH is determined by RLC SDU error
rate (RLC SDU ER). RLC SDU ER is specified for each individual data rate
of the MTCH. The requirement is valid for all RRC states for which the
UE has capabilities for MBMS.

The requirements and this test apply to Release 6 and later releases for
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support MBMS.

### 11.2.2 Minimum requirement

For the parameters specified in Table 11.2.2.1 the average downlink
S-CCPCH\_E~c~ /I~or~ power ratio shall be below the specified value for
the RLC SDU ER shown in Table 11.2.2.2.

Table 11.2.2.1: Parameters for MTCH detection

+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| Parameter   | Unit        | Test 1   | Test 2      | Test 3      |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| Phase       | \-          |          | P-CPICH     |             |
| reference   |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| ![](me      | dBm/3.84    | -60      |             |             |
| dia/image1. | MHz         |          |             |             |
| wmf){width= |             |          |             |             |
| "0.22222222 |             |          |             |             |
| 22222222in" |             |          |             |             |
| height="0   |             |          |             |             |
| .2083333333 |             |          |             |             |
| 3333334in"} |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| ![](medi    | dB          | -3       | -3          | -3          |
| a/image150. |             |          |             |             |
| wmf){width= |             |          |             |             |
| "0.47222222 |             |          |             |             |
| 22222222in" |             |          |             |             |
| height="    |             |          |             |             |
| 0.236111111 |             |          |             |             |
| 1111111in"} |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| MTCH Data   |             | 128 kbps | 256 kbps    | 128 kbps    |
| Rate        |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| T           | ms          | 40       | 40          | 80          |
| ransmission |             |          |             |             |
| Time        |             |          |             |             |
| Interval    |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| Propagation |             | VA3      |             |             |
| condition   |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| Number of   |             | 3        | 3           | 3           |
| Radio Links |             |          |             |             |
| p           |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| Delay of    |             | 160ms    | 20 ms       | 20 ms       |
| Radio Link  |             |          |             |             |
| 2 compared  |             |          |             |             |
| with Radio  |             |          |             |             |
| Link 1      |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| Delay of    |             | 1240ms   | 40.67 ms    | 80.67 ms\   |
| Radio Link  |             |          |             | (1 TTI + 1  |
| 3 compared  |             |          | (1 TTI + 1  | slot)       |
| with Radio  |             |          | slot)       |             |
| Link 1      |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+

Table 11.2.2.2: Test requirements for MTCH detection

  ------------- ---------------------- ------------
  Test Number   S-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior (dB)   RLC SDU ER
  1             -4.9                   0.1
  2             -5.6                   0.1
  3             -8.5                   0.1
  ------------- ---------------------- ------------

### 11.2.3 Test Purpose

The aim of the test is to verify that the RLC SDU error rate (RLC SDU
ER) for each individual data rate of the MTCH channel does not exceed
0.1. The test shall be performed in CELL\_PCH state only.

### 11.2.4 Method of test

#### 11.2.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS and AWGN noise source and fading simulator to the UE
antenna connector as shown in Figure A.23.

2\) The DL Reference Measurement Channel parameters are defined in Annex
C.12.1.

3\) The configuration for the downlink channel for each radio link is
defined in Annex.E.5B. The Ior of cell 2 and cell 3 are set to 10 dB
lower than cell 1.

4\) The same MTCH data shall be sent in all radio links during the test.

5\) The UE is switched on.

6\) The UE is interested in the broadcast service provided by the SS,
this service is included in the MBMS\_ACTIVATED\_SERVICES variable.

7\) Set up a call according to the generic call setup procedure in
TS34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.10 and enter the UE into loopback test mode 3
with transition to the CELL\_PCH state. See TS 34.108 and TS 34.109 for
details regarding loopback test mode 3 for MBMS.

8\) Setup the test parameter for Test 1-3 as specified in Table 11.2.5.1
and 11.2.5.2. Set up fading simulator as per the fading condition VA3,
which is described in table D.2.2.1C.

9\) Switch on the fading simulator.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-20 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9 of 34.108 \[3\], with the
exceptions stated in clause 7.3.10 of 34.108 \[3\], and with the
following exceptions:

##### Contents of PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message: AM (Step 7) {#contents-of-physical-channel-reconfiguration-message-am-step-7 .H6}

  ------------------------------------ --------------
  Information Element                  Value/remark
  UTRAN DRX cycle length coefficient   7
  ------------------------------------ --------------

#### 11.2.4.2 Procedure

1\) Initiate the variables N~SS~\_ACC to 0.

2\) SS shall start the test by sending valid MAC headers and RLC SDUs on
the MTCH radio bearer for 164 seconds (10 seconds in the second or later
iteration) on each Radio Link. The delays of Radio Link 2 and 3 compared
with Radio Link 1 are specified in Table 11.2.5.1. SS stores the count
of transmitted RLC SDU blocks on the MTCH with valid MAC headers in the
variable N~SS~ and adds it to N~SS~\_ACC.

3\) The SS transmits invalid MAC headers on the MTCH and sets Ior of
cell 2 and cell 3 to 10dB lower than cell 1.

4\) SS shall transmit a PAGING TYPE 1 message specified in TS 34.108
\[3\] clause 7.3.10.4 to place the UE in CELL\_FACH state.

5\) UE shall move to CELL\_FACH state by sending a CELL\_UPDATE message.
On reception of the CELL UPDATE message the SS shall transmit 3
identical CELL UPDATE CONFIRM message.

6\) UE confirms the received C-RNTI to be used in CELL FACH state by
transmitting a UTRAN MOBILITY INFORMATION CONFIRM message on the uplink
DCCH.

7\) SS shall send a \"UE TEST LOOP MODE 3 RLC SDU COUNTER REQUEST\"
message and wait for the UE to respond with a \"UE TEST LOOP MODE 3 RLC
SDU COUNTER RESPONSE\" reporting the received RLC SDU counter value.
Store this counter in the variable N~UEOK~.

8\) SS shall compute the RLC SDU error rate by the following:

The RLC SDU error rate = (N~SS~\_ACC -- N~UEOK~) / N~SS~\_ACC

N~UEOK~: UE received RLC SDUs as reported in the \"UE TEST LOOP MODE 3
RLC SDU COUNTER RESPONSE\" message in step 7.

N~SS~\_ACC: Accumulated sum of N~SS~ tested so far.

9\) The SS orders the UE to move to CELL\_PCH state by transmitting a
PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message with the RRC state indicator
set to \"CELL\_PCH\".

10\) The UE send a PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION COMPLETE message.

11\) The SS puts Ior of cell 2 and cell 3 back to test parameter
specified in Table 11.2.5.1.12) Repeat steps 2) to 11) until the
statistical significance according to Annex to F.6.4.4 is achieved.

13\) End the RRC connection according to the generic call setup
procedure specified in TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.10.

NOTE: In the Step 5 and 13 above, the 3 identical CELL UPDATE CONFIRM
messages are transmitted with the same RRC message sequence number.
Transmitting 3 identical CELL UPDATE CONFIRM messages is done to
increase the probability of correct message reception at the UE.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-21 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9 of 34.108 \[3\], with the
exceptions stated in clause 7.3.10 of 34.108\[3\] , and with the
following exceptions:

##### SYSTEM INFORMATION BLOCK TYPE5  {#system-information-block-type5 .H6}

  ---------------------- --------------
  Information Element    Value/remark
  \- PICH Power offset   -2 dB
  ---------------------- --------------

##### Content of CELL UPDATE CONFIRM message for CELL\_FACH (Step 5 and Step 13) {#content-of-cell-update-confirm-message-for-cell_fach-step-5-and-step-13 .H6}

  ---------------------------- --------------------
  **Information Element**      **Value/remark**
  RRC transaction identifier   0
  Activation time              Not Present
  New C-RNTI                   0000000000000001 B
  RRC State indicator          CELL\_FACH
  ---------------------------- --------------------

##### Contents of PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message: AM (Step 9) {#contents-of-physical-channel-reconfiguration-message-am-step-9 .H6}

  ------------------------------------ --------------
  Information Element                  Value/remark
  UTRAN DRX cycle length coefficient   7
  ------------------------------------ --------------

### 11.2.5 Test Requirements

Table 11.2.5.1: Parameters for MTCH detection

+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| Parameter   | Unit        | Test 1   | Test 2      | Test 3      |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| Phase       | \-          | P-CPICH  |             |             |
| reference   |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| ![](me      | dBm/3.84    | -60      |             |             |
| dia/image1. | MHz         |          |             |             |
| wmf){width= |             |          |             |             |
| "0.22222222 |             |          |             |             |
| 22222222in" |             |          |             |             |
| height="0   |             |          |             |             |
| .2083333333 |             |          |             |             |
| 3333334in"} |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| Cell1       | dB          | -2.4     | -2.4        | -2.4        |
| ${\ha       |             |          |             |             |
| t{I}}_{\tex |             |          |             |             |
| t{or}1}/I_{ |             |          |             |             |
| \text{oc}}$ |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| Cell2       | dB          | -2.4     | -2.4        | -2.4        |
| ![](media   |             |          |             |             |
| /image151.w |             |          |             |             |
| mf){width=" |             |          |             |             |
| 0.436805555 |             |          |             |             |
| 55555556in" |             |          |             |             |
| height="0   |             |          |             |             |
| .2243055555 |             |          |             |             |
| 5555556in"} |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| Cell3       | dB          | -2.4     | -2.4        | -2.4        |
| ![](media   |             |          |             |             |
| /image152.w |             |          |             |             |
| mf){width=" |             |          |             |             |
| 0.436805555 |             |          |             |             |
| 55555556in" |             |          |             |             |
| height="0   |             |          |             |             |
| .2243055555 |             |          |             |             |
| 5555556in"} |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| MTCH Data   |             | 128 kbps | 256 kbps    | 128 kbps    |
| Rate        |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| T           | ms          | 40       | 40          | 80          |
| ransmission |             |          |             |             |
| Time        |             |          |             |             |
| Interval    |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| Propagation |             | VA3      |             |             |
| condition   |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| Number of   |             | 3        | 3           | 3           |
| Radio Links |             |          |             |             |
| p           |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| Delay of    |             | 160ms    | 20 ms       | 20 ms       |
| Radio Link  |             |          |             |             |
| 2 compared  |             |          |             |             |
| with Radio  |             |          |             |             |
| Link 1      |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| Delay of    |             | 1240ms   | 40.67 ms    | 80.67 ms\   |
| Radio Link  |             |          |             | (1 TTI + 1  |
| 3 compared  |             |          | (1 TTI + 1  | slot)       |
| with Radio  |             |          | slot)       |             |
| Link 1      |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+

Table 11.2.5.2: Test requirements for MTCH detection

  ------------- ---------------------- ------------
  Test Number   S-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior (dB)   RLC SDU ER
  1             -4.8                   0.1
  2             -5.5                   0.1
  3             -8.4                   0.1
  ------------- ---------------------- ------------

The RLC SDU error rate (RLC SDU ER) for all the MTCH demodulation tests
shall not exceed the value specified in 11.2.5.2 for the
specified$\ \frac{S - \text{CCPCH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$.

The RLC SDU error rate = the ratio of (transmitted RLC SDU count --
received RLC SDU count) / (transmitted RLC SDU count) \< 0.1.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

11.2A Demodulation of MTCH - Enhanced Performance Requirements Type 1
---------------------------------------------------------------------

### 11.2A.1 Definition and applicability

The receive characteristic of the MTCH is determined by RLC SDU error
rate (RLC SDU ER). RLC SDU ER is specified for each individual data rate
of the MTCH. The requirement is valid for all RRC states for which the
UE has capabilities for MBMS.

The requirements and this test apply to Release 7 and later releases for
all types of UTRA for the FDD UE that support MBMS and enhanced receiver
type 1.

### 11.2A.2 Minimum requirement

For the parameters specified in Table 11.2A.2.1 the average downlink
S-CCPCH\_E~c~ /I~or~ power ratio shall be below the specified value for
the RLC SDU ER shown in Table 11.2A.2.2.

Table 11.2A.2.1: Parameters for MTCH detection

+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| Parameter   | Unit        | Test 1   | Test 2      | Test 3      |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| Phase       | \-          | P-CPICH  |             |             |
| reference   |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| ![](me      | dBm/3.84    | -60      |             |             |
| dia/image1. | MHz         |          |             |             |
| wmf){width= |             |          |             |             |
| "0.22222222 |             |          |             |             |
| 22222222in" |             |          |             |             |
| height="0   |             |          |             |             |
| .2083333333 |             |          |             |             |
| 3333334in"} |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| ![](medi    | dB          | -3       | -3          | -3          |
| a/image150. |             |          |             |             |
| wmf){width= |             |          |             |             |
| "0.47222222 |             |          |             |             |
| 22222222in" |             |          |             |             |
| height="    |             |          |             |             |
| 0.236111111 |             |          |             |             |
| 1111111in"} |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| MTCH Data   |             | 128 kbps | 256 kbps    | 128 kbps    |
| Rate        |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| T           | ms          | 40       | 40          | 80          |
| ransmission |             |          |             |             |
| Time        |             |          |             |             |
| Interval    |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| Propagation |             | VA3      |             |             |
| condition   |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| Number of   |             | 3        | 3           | 3           |
| Radio Links |             |          |             |             |
| p           |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| Delay of    |             | 160ms    | 20 ms       | 20 ms       |
| Radio Link  |             |          |             |             |
| 2 compared  |             |          |             |             |
| with Radio  |             |          |             |             |
| Link 1      |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| Delay of    |             | 1240ms   | 40.67 ms    | 80.67 ms\   |
| Radio Link  |             |          |             | (1 TTI + 1  |
| 3 compared  |             |          | (1 TTI + 1  | slot)       |
| with Radio  |             |          | slot)       |             |
| Link 1      |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+

Table 11.2A.2.2: Test requirements for MTCH detection for UE supporting
the enhanced performance requirements type1

  ------------- ---------------------- ------------
  Test Number   S-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior (dB)   RLC SDU ER
  **1**         **-7.7**               **0.1**
  **2**         **-8.7**               **0.1**
  **3**         **-11.5**              **0.1**
  ------------- ---------------------- ------------

### 11.2A.3 Test Purpose

The aim of the test is to verify that the RLC SDU error rate (RLC SDU
ER) for each individual data rate of the MTCH channel does not exceed
0.1. The test shall be performed in CELL\_PCH state only.

### 11.2A.4 Method of test

#### 11.2A.4.1 Initial conditions

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS and AWGN noise source and fading simulators to the UE
antenna connector as shown in Figure A.25.

2\) The DL Reference Measurement Channel parameters are defined in Annex
C.12.1.

3\) The configuration for the downlink channel for each radio link is
defined in Annex.E.5B. The Ior of cell 2 and cell 3 are set to 10 dB
lower than cell 1.

4\) The same MTCH data shall be sent in all radio links during the test.

5\) The UE is switched on.

6\) The UE is interested in the broadcast service provided by the SS,
this service is included in the MBMS\_ACTIVATED\_SERVICES variable.

7\) Set up a call according to the generic call setup procedure in
TS34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.10 and enter the UE into loopback test mode 3
with transition to the CELL\_PCH state. See TS 34.108 and TS 34.109 for
details regarding loopback test mode 3 for MBMS.

8\) Setup the test parameter for Test 1-3 as specified in Table
11.2A.5.1 and 11.2A.5.2. Set up fading simulators as per the fading
condition VA3, which is described in table D.2.2.1C.

9\) Switch on the fading simulator.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-22 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9 of 34.108 \[3\], with the
exceptions stated in clause 7.3.10 of 34.108 \[3\], and with the
following exceptions:

##### Contents of PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message: AM (Step 7) {#contents-of-physical-channel-reconfiguration-message-am-step-7-1 .H6}

  ------------------------------------ --------------
  Information Element                  Value/remark
  UTRAN DRX cycle length coefficient   7
  ------------------------------------ --------------

#### 11.2A.4.2 Procedure

1\) Initiate the variables N~SS~\_ACC to 0.

2\) SS shall start the test by sending valid MAC headers and RLC SDUs on
the MTCH radio bearer for 164 seconds (10 seconds in the second or later
iteration) on each Radio Link. The delays of Radio Link 2 and 3 compared
with Radio Link 1 are specified in Table 11.2A.5.1. SS stores the count
of transmitted RLC SDU blocks on the MTCH with valid MAC headers in the
variable N~SS~ and adds it to N~SS~\_ACC.

3\) The SS transmits invalid MAC headers on the MTCH and sets Ior of
cell 2 and cell 3 to 10dB lower than cell 1.

4\) SS shall transmit a PAGING TYPE 1 message specified in TS 34.108
\[3\] clause 7.3.10.4 to place the UE in CELL\_FACH state.

5\) UE shall move to CELL\_FACH state by sending a CELL\_UPDATE message.
On reception of the CELL UPDATE message the SS shall transmit 3
identical CELL UPDATE CONFIRM message.

6\) UE confirms the received C-RNTI to be used in CELL FACH state by
transmitting a UTRAN MOBILITY INFORMATION CONFIRM message on the uplink
DCCH.

7\) SS shall send a \"UE TEST LOOP MODE 3 RLC SDU COUNTER REQUEST\"
message and wait for the UE to respond with a \"UE TEST LOOP MODE 3 RLC
SDU COUNTER RESPONSE\" reporting the received RLC SDU counter value.
Store this counter in the variable N~UEOK~.

8\) SS shall compute the RLC SDU error rate by the following:

The RLC SDU error rate = (N~SS~\_ACC -- N~UEOK~) / N~SS~\_ACC

N~UEOK~: UE received RLC SDUs as reported in the \"UE TEST LOOP MODE 3
RLC SDU COUNTER RESPONSE\" message in step 7.

N~SS~\_ACC: Accumulated sum of N~SS~ tested so far.

9\) The SS orders the UE to move to CELL\_PCH state by transmitting a
PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message with the RRC state indicator
set to \"CELL\_PCH\".

10\) The UE send a PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION COMPLETE message.

11\) The SS puts Ior of cell 2 and cell 3 back to test parameter
specified in Table 11.2A.5.1.12) Repeat steps 2) to 11) until the
statistical significance according to Annex to F.6.4.4 is achieved.

13\) End the RRC connection according to the generic call setup
procedure specified in TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.10.

NOTE: In the Step 5 and 13 above, the 3 identical CELL UPDATE CONFIRM
messages are transmitted with the same RRC message sequence number.
Transmitting 3 identical CELL UPDATE CONFIRM messages is done to
increase the probability of correct message reception at the UE.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-23 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9 of 34.108 \[3\], with the
exceptions stated in clause 7.3.10 of 34.108 \[3\], and with the
following exceptions:

##### SYSTEM INFORMATION BLOCK TYPE5 {#system-information-block-type5-1 .H6}

  ---------------------- --------------
  Information Element    Value/remark
  \- PICH Power offset   -2 dB
  ---------------------- --------------

##### Content of CELL UPDATE CONFIRM message for CELL\_FACH (Step 5 and Step 13) {#content-of-cell-update-confirm-message-for-cell_fach-step-5-and-step-13-1 .H6}

  ---------------------------- --------------------
  **Information Element**      **Value/remark**
  RRC transaction identifier   0
  Activation time              Not Present
  New C-RNTI                   0000000000000001 B
  RRC State indicator          CELL\_FACH
  ---------------------------- --------------------

##### Contents of PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message: AM (Step 9) {#contents-of-physical-channel-reconfiguration-message-am-step-9-1 .H6}

  ------------------------------------ --------------
  Information Element                  Value/remark
  UTRAN DRX cycle length coefficient   7
  ------------------------------------ --------------

### 11.2A.5 Test Requirements

Table 11.2A.5.1: Parameters for MTCH detection

+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| Parameter   | Unit        | Test 1   | Test 2      | Test 3      |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| Phase       | \-          | P-CPICH  |             |             |
| reference   |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| ![](me      | dBm/3.84    | -60      |             |             |
| dia/image1. | MHz         |          |             |             |
| wmf){width= |             |          |             |             |
| "0.22222222 |             |          |             |             |
| 22222222in" |             |          |             |             |
| height="0   |             |          |             |             |
| .2083333333 |             |          |             |             |
| 3333334in"} |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| Cell1       | dB          | -2.4     | -2.4        | -2.4        |
| ${\ha       |             |          |             |             |
| t{I}}_{\tex |             |          |             |             |
| t{or}1}/I_{ |             |          |             |             |
| \text{oc}}$ |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| Cell2       | dB          | -2.4     | -2.4        | -2.4        |
| ![](media   |             |          |             |             |
| /image151.w |             |          |             |             |
| mf){width=" |             |          |             |             |
| 0.436805555 |             |          |             |             |
| 55555556in" |             |          |             |             |
| height="0   |             |          |             |             |
| .2243055555 |             |          |             |             |
| 5555556in"} |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| Cell3       | dB          | -2.4     | -2.4        | -2.4        |
| ![](media   |             |          |             |             |
| /image152.w |             |          |             |             |
| mf){width=" |             |          |             |             |
| 0.436805555 |             |          |             |             |
| 55555556in" |             |          |             |             |
| height="0   |             |          |             |             |
| .2243055555 |             |          |             |             |
| 5555556in"} |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| MTCH Data   |             | 128 kbps | 256 kbps    | 128 kbps    |
| Rate        |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| T           | ms          | 40       | 40          | 80          |
| ransmission |             |          |             |             |
| Time        |             |          |             |             |
| Interval    |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| Propagation |             | VA3      |             |             |
| condition   |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| Number of   |             | 3        | 3           | 3           |
| Radio Links |             |          |             |             |
| p           |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| Delay of    |             | 160ms    | 20 ms       | 20 ms       |
| Radio Link  |             |          |             |             |
| 2 compared  |             |          |             |             |
| with Radio  |             |          |             |             |
| Link 1      |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
| Delay of    |             | 1240ms   | 40.67 ms    | 80.67 ms\   |
| Radio Link  |             |          |             | (1 TTI + 1  |
| 3 compared  |             |          | (1 TTI + 1  | slot)       |
| with Radio  |             |          | slot)       |             |
| Link 1      |             |          |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+

Table 11.2A.5.2: Test requirements for MTCH detection for UE supporting
the enhanced performance requirements type1

  ------------- ---------------------- ------------
  Test Number   S-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior (dB)   RLC SDU ER
  **1**         **-7.6**               **0.1**
  **2**         **-8.6**               **0.1**
  **3**         **-11.4**              **0.1**
  ------------- ---------------------- ------------

The RLC SDU error rate (RLC SDU ER) for all the MTCH demodulation tests
shall not exceed the value specified in 11.2A.5.2 for the
specified$\ \frac{S - \text{CCPCH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$.

The RLC SDU error rate = the ratio of (transmitted RLC SDU count --
received RLC SDU count) / (transmitted RLC SDU count) \< 0.1.

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.

11.3 Demodulation of MTCH and cell identification
-------------------------------------------------

### 11.3.1 Definition and applicability

MBMS combining is not controlled by a network but instead it is
autonomously handled by a terminal. UE has to be able to receive MTCH
and identify intra-frequency neighbour cells according to the
requirements. The receive characteristic of the MTCH combined with cell
identification is determined by RLC SDU error rate (RLC SDU ER).

The requirements and this test apply to Release 6 and later releases for
FDD UE that supports MBMS.

### 11.3.2 Minimum requirements

For the parameters specified in Table 11.3.2.1 the average downlink
S-CCPCH\_E~c~/I~or~ power ratio shall be below the specified value for
the RLC SDU error rate shown in Table 11.3.2.2. The cell reselection
parameters are given in clause in Table 11.3.2.3. The different cells
are assumed to be time aligned.

Table 11.3.2.1: Parameters for MTCH demodulation requirements with cell
identification

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ----------- --------- -----------
  Parameter                                                                                     Unit           Test 1                
                                                                                                               Stage 1     Stage 2   Stage 3
  Time in each stage                                                                            S              2           0.8       2
  Phase reference                                                                               \-             P-CPICH               
  ![](media/image1.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}            dBm/3.84 MHz   -70         -73       -70
  Cell1 ${\hat{I}}_{\text{or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$                                                  dB             -3          0         -3
  Cell2 ![](media/image151.wmf){width="0.43680555555555556in" height="0.22430555555555556in"}   dB             -3          0         -infinity
  Cell3 ![](media/image152.wmf){width="0.43680555555555556in" height="0.22430555555555556in"}   dB             -infinity   0         -3
  Propagation condition                                                                                        Case1                 
  MTCH Data Rate                                                                                Kbps           128                   
  Number of Radio Links                                                                                        2           3         2
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ----------- --------- -----------

Table 11.3.2.2: Requirements for MTCH detection

  ------------- ---------------------- ------------
  Test Number   S-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior (dB)   RLC SDU ER
  1             -5.6                   0.05
  ------------- ---------------------- ------------

Parameters for combined MTCH demodulation and cell identification
requirements are defined in Table 11.3.2.3.

Table 11.3.2.3: Cell reselection parameters

  ----------------------------------------------------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Parameter                                             Unit      Value

  Serving cell in the initial condition                           Cell1

  Neighbour cells                                                 32 intra-frequency neighbour cells are indicated including Cell2 and Cell3

  Cell\_selection\_and\_reselection\_quality\_measure             CPICH E~c~/N~0~

  Qqualmin                                              dB        -20

  Qrxlevmin                                             dBm       -115

  UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_\                                     dB        21
  RACH                                                            

  Qhyst2                                                dB        20 dB

  Treselection                                          Seconds   4

  Sintrasearch                                          dB        not sent

  IE \"FACH Measurement occasion info\"                           not sent
  ----------------------------------------------------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The reference for this requirement is TS 25.101 \[1\] clause 11.3.1 and
TS 25.101 \[1\] annex A.9.

### 11.3.3 Test purpose

To verify that the SDU error rate does not exceed the value at the
S-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior specified in table 11.3.2.2.

### 11.3.4 Method of test

##### 11.3.4.1 Initial conditions {#initial-conditions-11 .H6}

Test environment: normal; see clauses G.2.1 and G.2.2.

Frequencies to be tested: mid range; see clause G.2.4.

1\) Connect the SS and AWGN noise source and fading simulators to the UE
antenna connector as shown in Figure A.23.

2\) The DL Reference Measurement Channel (128kbps 40ms TTI) parameters
are defined in Annex C.12.1 and C.12.2.

3\) The configuration for the downlink channel for each radio link is
defined in Annex.E.5B.1. The Ior of cell 2 and cell 3 are set to 10 dB
lower than cell 1.

4\) The same MTCH data shall be sent in all active cells during the
test.

5\) The UE is switched on.

6\) The UE selects the broadcast service provided by the SS (included in
the MBMS\_ACTIVATED\_SERVICES variable).

7\) Set up a call according to the generic call setup procedure
specified in TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.10 to configure and activate an
MBMS session and enter the UE into loopback mode 3 with transition to
CELL\_PCH state. The SS broadcast the cell reselection parameters
according to table 11.3.2.3. See TS 34.108 and TS 34.109 for details
regarding loopback test mode 3 for MBMS.

8\) Set up fading simulators as per the fading condition Case 1, which
is described in table D.2.2.1.

9\) Switch on the fading simulator.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-24 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9 of 34.108 \[3\], with the
exceptions stated in clause 7.3.10 of 34.108 \[3\], and with the
following exceptions:

##### Contents of PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message: AM (Step 7) {#contents-of-physical-channel-reconfiguration-message-am-step-7-2 .H6}

  ------------------------------------ --------------
  Information Element                  Value/remark
  UTRAN DRX cycle length coefficient   7
  ------------------------------------ --------------

##### 11.3.4.2 Procedures {#procedures .H6}

1\) Initiate the variables N~SS~ to 0.

2\) The SS configures and activates cell 1 to 3 with RF parameters
according to Stage 1 conditions in Table 11.3.5.1.

3\) The SS transmits valid MAC headers and RLC SDUs on the MTCH radio
bearer for 2 seconds during Stage 1, 0.8 seconds during Stage 2 and 2
seconds during T3. The SS changes the test parameters for Cell 1, Cell 2
and Cell 3 from Stage 1 to 3 as specified in table 11.3.5.1 and counts
the number of transmitted RLC SDUs on the MTCH with valid MAC headers
(N~SS~) and adds it to N~SS~\_ACC.

4\) The SS transmits invalid MAC headers on the MTCH radio bearer and
sets Ior of cell 3 to 10dB lower than cell 1.

5\) The SS transmits a PAGING TYPE 1 message specified in TS 34.108
\[3\] clause 7.3.10.4 to place the UE in CELL\_FACH state.

6\) UE shall move to CELL\_FACH state by sending a CELL\_UPDATE message.
On reception of the CELL UPDATE message the SS shall transmit 3
identical CELL UPDATE CONFIRM message.

7\) UE confirms the received C-RNTI to be used in CELL FACH state by
transmitting a UTRAN MOBILITY INFORMATION CONFIRM message on the uplink
DCCH.

8\) The SS sends a \"UE TEST LOOP MODE 3 RLC SDU COUNTER REQUEST\"
message.

9\) The SS waits for the UE to respond by a \"UE TEST LOOP MODE 3 RLC
SDU COUNTER RESPONSE\" message reporting the number of received RLC SDUs
on MTCH (N~UEOK~).

10\) The SS in Cell 1 calculates the SDU error rate by the following:
The SDU error rate = (N~SS~\_ACC -- N~UEOK~) / N~SS~

N~UEOK~: UE received RLC SDUs as reported in the \"UE TEST LOOP MODE 3
RLC SDU COUNTER RESPONSE\" message in step 9.

N~SS~\_ACC: Accumulated sum of N~SS~ tested so far.

11\) The SS orders the UE to move to CELL\_PCH state by transmitting a
PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message with the RRC state indicator
set to \"CELL\_PCH\".

12\) The UE send a PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION COMPLETE message.

13\) Repeat steps 2) to 12) until the confidence level for RLC SDU's
according to annex F.6.4.4.

14\) End the RRC connection according to the generic call setup
procedure specified in TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3.10.

NOTE: In the Step 6 and 14 above, the 3 identical CELL UPDATE CONFIRM
messages are transmitted with the same RRC message sequence number.
Transmitting 3 identical CELL UPDATE CONFIRM messages is done to
increase the probability of correct message reception at the UE.

##### Specific Message Contents {#specific-message-contents-25 .H6}

All messages indicated above shall use the same content as described in
the default message content in clause 9 of 34.108 \[3\], with the
exceptions stated in clause 7.3.10 of 34.108 \[3\], and with the
following exceptions:

##### SYSTEM INFORMATION BLOCK TYPE5 {#system-information-block-type5-2 .H6}

  ---------------------- --------------
  Information Element    Value/remark
  \- PICH Power offset   -2 dB
  ---------------------- --------------

##### Content of CELL UPDATE CONFIRM message for CELL\_FACH (Step 6 and Step 14) {#content-of-cell-update-confirm-message-for-cell_fach-step-6-and-step-14 .H6}

  ---------------------------- --------------------
  **Information Element**      **Value/remark**
  RRC transaction identifier   0
  Activation time              Not Present
  New C-RNTI                   0000000000000001 B
  RRC State indicator          CELL\_FACH
  ---------------------------- --------------------

##### Contents of PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION message: AM (Step 11) {#contents-of-physical-channel-reconfiguration-message-am-step-11 .H6}

  ------------------------------------ --------------
  Information Element                  Value/remark
  UTRAN DRX cycle length coefficient   7
  ------------------------------------ --------------

### 11.3.5 Test requirements

The test parameters are specified in table 11.3.5.1.

Table 11.3.5.1: Parameters for MTCH demodulation requirements with cell
identification

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ----------- --------- -----------
  Parameter                                                                                     Unit           Test 1                
                                                                                                               Stage 1     Stage 2   Stage 2
  Time in each stage                                                                            S              2           0.8       2
  Phase reference                                                                               \-             P-CPICH               
                                                                                                dBm/3.84 MHz   -70         -73       -70
  Cell1 ${\hat{I}}_{\text{or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$                                                  dB             -2.4        0.6       -2.4
  Cell2 ![](media/image151.wmf){width="0.43680555555555556in" height="0.22430555555555556in"}   dB             -2.4        0.6       -infinity
  Cell3 ![](media/image152.wmf){width="0.43680555555555556in" height="0.22430555555555556in"}   dB             -infinity   0.6       -2.4
  Propagation condition                                                                                        Case1                 
  MTCH Data Rate                                                                                Kbps           128                   
  Number of Radio Links                                                                                        2           3         2
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ----------- --------- -----------

The RLC SDU ER shall not exceed the value specified in table 11.3.5.2
for the specified$\ \frac{S - \text{CCPCH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$.

Table 11.3.5.2: Requirements for MTCH detection

  ------------- ---------------------- ------------
  Test Number   S-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior (dB)   RLC SDU ER
  1             -5.5                   0.05
  ------------- ---------------------- ------------

NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement
then the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The Test
Tolerance for this test is defined in clause F.2 and the explanation of
how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test Tolerance is
given in clause F.4.
